Hello guys!

So I'm quite excited to start the NLP series that is natural language processing for machine learning.

In this video we are going to see the entire roadmap like how you should go ahead and prepare for natural

language processing and NLP is an amazing domain, amazing tech part.

With respect to machine learning or deep learning, a lot of research is basically happening in natural

language processing itself.

So let me go ahead and let me just share my screen and uh, let me go ahead and let me explain about

the roadmap, like how you should basically go ahead with the preparation.

So, uh, to begin with, uh, till now, probably if, you know, machine learning.

Okay.

So in machine learning you have actually seen right.

We solve two different kind of problems.

One is supervised, that is supervised.

And the other one that we basically solve is something called as unsupervised machine learning.

Now in most of the supervised machine learning use cases where we specifically solve two different kind

of problem statements like classification in.

And regression right.

In all this problem statement.

Right.

What we have seen is that let's say if we have some specific set of features like F1, F2, F3, f4,

like this, it can be any number of features.

This features are usually called as independent features.

Right.

So if I probably talk about this these are my input features.

Or I can also say this as my independent features.

Independent features.

Right.

And similarly I also have my output feature which is my dependent feature.

Right.

Which is my dependent feature.

So what is our aim in a supervised machine learning model is that with respect to this features, we

obviously will be having lot of data points in the output.

It can be a classification problem or a regression problem.

And over here I may have continuous values or I may have uh classified points like ones and zeros.

It can be binary.

It can be multi-class.

Okay.

So let's say if I have this kind of data points over here, what is our main aim.

We usually create a model okay.

We usually create a model.

And we train the model with this data.

Right.

So we basically create a model.

And we train this particular model with this specific data set.

Right.

With this specific data set then our model will be able to make or it will be capable to make some predictions.

Whenever I give this kind of input data.

Now in machine learning specifically if I talk about this features right now, F1 can be a continuous

features, F2 can basically be a categorical features, and it can also be different types of features

over here.

And during this particular scenario, let's say that some of our features are completely made up of

text.

Let's say one basic example that I really want to give is about spam classification.

Let's say this is my example over here.

Spam classification.

Now in spam classification, what all features we may have, we may have let's say, uh, my main aim

is to basically detect whether a email that comes to me is a spam or not spam.

Okay, so let's say that this is a classification problem that I really want to solve.

Now in this scenario, some of the features that I may have, one feature is that I may have something

called as email subject.

Okay.

I may have the next feature as email body, and my output feature is basically whether this mail is

spam or ham.

Ham basically means not spam.

So let's say over here, I'll give you one example.

Let's say the email subject is like billionaire.

So here you can see that it is a completely a text right email body.

It can be like you won a lottery of okay, I'm just giving you an example.

You won a lottery of billion dollar.

And I think you get this kind of emails right.

Now obviously when you get this email, uh, in real world scenario, we will be classifying this particular

points and this will basically be a spam.

So I'll put a category as one.

Or I can also put it as spam itself.

Now here one thing that you can notice over here is that whenever in our input features we have, we

have a continuous variable and we have a categorical variables.

And obviously we have different different techniques to convert this categorical variables into continuous

values.

Right.

Uh, there are techniques like one hot encoding.

There are techniques like uh target encoding, ordinal encoding.

All those techniques are there which we basically do it in feature engineering.

But let's say that if my entire data is a text or a sentence like this, right, in this particular

scenario, I will definitely it will not be that easy for a model to understand, right?

Obviously, because the model cannot understand human language, right?

Right.

Now I have written in English tomorrow it can be in Chinese day after tomorrow it can be in some other

languages.

So model is not directly capable of understanding this particular text.

So what should we do in this particular scenario.

So we have techniques.

We have techniques where we can convert this all text into some meaningful vectors.

Meaningful vectors.

Now what are vectors.

Vectors are just like numbers only.

But but understand those vectors represent some meaningful information with respect to this particular

text, okay?

And whenever your input data is in form of text or sentences, we basically use something called as

natural language processing so that we will be able to process this particular data, and we'll be able

to make the model understand to solve use cases like spam classification.

Right.

So this is the entire context behind NLP and why it is so much popular.

Because nowadays you see lot of examples.

Alexa.

Right.

I think many people use Alexa.

Many people use Google Home, right?

Many people use some automated device like let's say the AC is running right?

And you say, hey, switch off the AC, switch on the AC.

How that particular machine is able to understand that it is all because of natural language processing.

Google is extensively doing some amazing research with respect to NLP, and they're coming up with some

amazing things.

Yes, we will be learning, uh, both with respect to machine learning and as we go, we'll also try

to learn with respect to deep learning, but just try to understand.

In this video we are going to understand the roadmap, like how we should go ahead and prepare with

respect to the NLP.

So again I'm going to write the roadmap of NLP okay.

And again we are also going to use different different libraries.

I will just going to draw a pyramid kind of structure and we will go in the bottom to top approach okay.

So let's go ahead and let's try to understand what should be the roadmap of NLP initially to begin with.

Initially to begin with I'm just going to create a small block.

Okay to begin with, this first block is basically initially you need to know one programming language.

So let's say that I am going to probably go ahead with Python programming language.

Super important right?

With the help of Python programming language will obviously be able to solve a lot of use cases of NLP.

But when I go to step one.

So this is basically the step one.

The step one is nothing, but it is basically called as text pre-processing.

And this text pre-processing initially will start with some basic things, like whenever we have this

kind of text data, what are the text pre-processing things we need to do, how we can basically clean

that particular text data.

All those things will basically come in text pre-processing.

Okay.

The techniques that we are probably going to apply in this is like tokenization.

Tokenization is a concept wherein you convert a paragraph into a sentence, a sentence into a words,

different, different things.

We are also going to learn techniques like lemmatization.

We are going to learn techniques like stemming.

We are also going to introduce to words like something called as stop words.

All these things will basically become covering in the text pre-processing part one.

So this is basically the step one.

Okay.

So I'm just going to write this as step one.

Super important.

And initially we'll be starting with this.

Okay.

And again uh the entire detailed syllabus obviously I'm going to make video by video to make you understand

each and everything.

But on the thousand feet overview, I'm just giving you this.

There are a lot of topics inside this which we really need to be familiar with.

Now coming to the second one okay.

So the second one, we basically say it as text pre-processing.

Step two okay.

So again this is also a uh text pre-processing technique.

But we little bit we, we try to increase the complexity of it and it tries to solve more problems.

So here in the text pre-processing tool here we focus on converting the text data into vectors.

So here I'm just going to write it down.

This is my step two here.

I'll write or I can basically text pre-processing part two.

Here we are going to learn topics like bag of words okay TF-IDF.

We're also going to learn things like unigrams bigrams.

There are a lot of concepts like this which we are going to cover it again.

This is again a text pre-processing technique.

But again understand what is the main aim.

The main aim is basically to convert or let me just write like this.

Step one and step two.

Instead of writing like this, I will just write it in a simpler way.

Okay, so here I am.

We are basically focusing on.

Cleaning the text, right.

Cleaning the inputs.

Cleaning the input.

In this particular step, we are trying to focus on converting our input text.

Two vectors.

And this is a super important step, because this vector should be able to make sure that the context

of the statement should be able to get captured, right?

So at the end of the day, in NLP, with whatever techniques right now it is there like a transformers,

birds are there, which is quite advanced techniques.

If you are able to convert this input text into some meaningful vectors, you will be able to solve

those particular use cases in a better manner.

Right?

So this is basically the second step where we focus on uh, converting the input text into vectors.

Still, there are more advanced techniques of text pre-processing, which I will go with the third step.

And here we focus on.

Here.

I'm just going to write it as text pre-processing.

With respect to part three okay.

And here what all things we basically focus on, we use more advanced techniques which is like word

two vec word two vec.

Average word two vec.

And this is also a technique to convert the input text into vectors.

Now you may be thinking, Chris, in the second step.

Also, you have written the same thing.

In the third step.

Also you have written same thing.

Yes, guys, understand as we go from the second step to the third step, this conversion of the input

text to vectors, it is better than the approach that we basically use in B or w, that is bag of words

TF-IDF unigram bigrams, right?

But as a learner, we really need to know all this particular steps.

Right now.

Over here we focus more on techniques like word two vec and average word two vec.

Here the word two vec and average word two vec is again a kind of a deep learning technique.

But we will try to learn this and we'll try to understand how it basically happens.

Okay.

Now coming to the next step, uh, that we focus on, right.

If we continue understanding the entire roadmap here, we also focus on understanding RNN, LSTM, RNN.

Grew okay.

Grew our own.

Now again, guys, this is a deep learning technique which is basically used for handling or solving

text related use cases like spam classification, text summarization, and many more things.

So again over here, these are some neural networks you should be familiar with in the roadmap before

uh, basically when we enter into the deep learning part, this is super important to understand.

And again, uh, as I said, this is a part of deep learning technique.

Okay.

But since I'm writing about the roadmap, I really need to mention about all those things.

Now coming to the next one, uh, there is also a technique which is called as word embedding.

Okay.

So this is an also an amazing way to convert input text into vectors internally if I talk about.

So this particular text pre-processing, it also uses techniques like word embedding okay.

So this is also a technique.

But this technique is basically called as word embeddings.

And word embeddings internally uses some amount of word two vec.

But we can train our own word embedding techniques.

Okay.

So again uh this is a technique of converting input text into vectors.

Now similarly we have techniques like transformers and birds also.

So coming to the next one this is basically transformer.

Again, this is an advanced technique.

I just really wanted to mention all these things to you so that you will be able to understand.

But so if you really want to become a pro, you really need to go with this particular pattern and try

to complete till birth and try to see the application of that.

But as we go up from bottom to top, the accuracy of the model keeps on increasing because and and remember

one more thing.

The size of the model also increases, right?

Which whichever machine learning models or deep learning models that you are probably trying to create

to solve the NLP use cases, it will keep on increasing as you go towards Transformer and Bert.

Now initially, as I said, we are going to learn with respect to NLP, with respect to machine learning,

NLP for machine learning.

So what all things we are going to focus on, we are going to focus on these three things first and

then we'll start deep learning.

We will probably focus on this three okay so here I'm just going to write this important thing.

Is that all the this three steps will be the part of machine learning.

And now when I say machine learning we will be using libraries like NLTK.

And there are also libraries like Spacy which will actually help us to perform all the task which is

available over here in the bottom three.

Right.

But we'll focus on one library called that is called as NLTK.

So suppose if you know NLTK, I think learning space is also very much easy.

In the case of deep learning we will usually go with libraries like TensorFlow or PyTorch.

So both libraries are quite amazing with respect to this.

As you know, TensorFlow is now an open source.

PyTorch is an open source.

TensorFlow has been created by Google.

PyTorch has been created by Facebook.

Right?

But at the end of the day, what is the main aim?

Your input data is in the form of text data, and you basically have to perform some amazing kind of

text preprocessing where you convert the input text data into vectors and you are able to solve amazing

use cases of NLP using both machine learning and deep learning.

And this is a brief idea about the entire roadmap, uh, like how we are going to prepare.

In the next video, I'm going to discuss about some of the amazing use cases, what all things we can

basically do with the help of NLP.

Right?

So all those things will be covering in the upcoming video.

So yes, I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to NLP.

And in this video we are going to discuss about some of the amazing use cases and these use cases.

We use it every day in our day to day activities.

Right.

So let me go ahead and let me share my screen and let me talk about every use cases.

One by one we will be discussing about it.

And this will give you a clear idea about what is natural language processing.

Now here I have opened my Gmail tab.

Now in this specific Gmail you will be able to see that, uh, let's say that I really want to write

some email, right?

So I'll say hello, Krish.

Okay.

And let's say I made a spelling mistake.

Okay, I wanted to.

Clarify.

So I have actually written a wrong spelling.

So here you can see that automatically the spelling has been corrected.

Right.

And this is all because of NLP.

And in this also we can like suppose if we receive a email from someone right.

We can also write an automated email from them.

So that basically means it will basically tell us that what kind of text it will auto generate and it

will give it for us, and we can actually send it.

So I would like to I wanted to clarify about the data science.

And let's say I write course.

Okay.

Now let's see what it basically gives.

It can also give you a suggestion like this.

And now you can basically select the course.

Right.

So this is also one amazing use cases.

And we use it every day.

Now let's say I go to my LinkedIn.

So here uh Rudra Pratap Singh is one of my student.

And automatically we can see that two tags automated reply is there in the LinkedIn itself.

And this is also an amazing application from NLP.

So that if you really want to just provide this, any of this particular two tag, you can just click

it and you can reply back.

So in this in short is saving you a lot of time.

Now similarly, if I go with respect to one more application that is Google Translate, and I hope everybody

uses this, let's say that I just go ahead and write one language.

I'll just say, how are you?

Right.

And I probably want to convert this into Arabic.

Right.

Okay.

So it looks something like this with this specific language.

Suppose if I really want to convert this into Hindi.

So then you can basically say that automatically the text is coming like here right?

In Hindi we basically say Kya Hal, hey for how are you.

So this is also happening because of NLP.

Amazing application.

And we use this and in most of the websites also, right.

Let's say in LinkedIn, if somebody is posting in some different language below, only you'll get an

option of something called as see translation.

So once you click that particular thing and automatically gets converted to English.

Not only that guys, let's say that I'm just going to go ahead and search for Krishna.

So Krishna is my name.

I'm a YouTuber.

I'm also a co-founder of inherent AI.

But here if I probably go and collect on select on images.

Now here you can see that it is already been able to detect my image and it is in turn converting that

text into images.

It is understanding the text and it is basically thinking that okay, it knows that it is talking about

myself and based on the web, right?

It is being able to capture all the images that is available in the web.

So this is also an amazing thing.

And probably if I probably go ahead and select videos here.

Also, you'll be able to see all the videos of my in my YouTube channel, or probably in all the other

public platform that I have, which is being accessible by web.

So this is an also amazing example.

Text to image, text to video.

And a lot of research is also currently going on with respect to different different companies.

There is an amazing company which is called as hugging face and hugging face have actually created an

amazing models and solutions for solving question answering session.

Uh, question answering.

It has basically question answering models, some summarization, text classification, translation.

Right.

All these particular use cases are there.

And you can see that how many different kind of models it has like for question answering.

Right.

It has 2380 models summarization.

It has 588 models.

Uh for text classification has it has this much models.

Right.

And here you can see that how many companies are basically using this Google AI Intel Spoonbridge.

Bob Microsoft.

Grammarly.

Right.

All these things are basically using this.

Uh, and again, this is an amazing application of NLP itself because all these applications are, in

short, taking the text data only and performing different kind of tasks on top of it.

So one more amazing thing that I really want to show you as an application with respect to Alexa and

Google Assistant, uh, I have some of the Alexa home configured over here.

I can control my ACS and lights, but with respect to Google Assistant, a simple application, I can

go and open it.

So here I have my Google Assistant.

Now here you can see that hey Google, do I have any doctor appointments tomorrow?

Sorry, I can't find anything on your calendar that matches that.

So now here you can see that, uh, already it is being able to retrieve from my calendar.

It is able to see whether I have a doctor appointment or not tomorrow.

So this way, it is really, really easy for doing all the tasks with respect to most of the critical

things right that we do in our day to day activities.

So we use extensively NLP a lot in our day to day activities.

And uh, this is what we are going to learn in this specific course, how we can build this kind of

models, what kind of text pre-processing actually happens.

We'll get a crux idea behind it, how these applications also works.

Okay, so yes, uh, this was about the second video of mine, uh, with respect to natural language

processing and machine learning.

I will see you all in the next video where we are going to start the syllabus.

I will see you all in the next video.

Bye bye.

Take care.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video, we are going to cover some of the basic terminologies that is required in NLP.

You really need to understand these terminologies because I am going to repeat this terminologies again

and again when we are discussing the other topics.

So the topics that is going to get covered in this video is about corpus documents, vocabulary words.

You really need to know all these topics what exactly it is with some basic examples.

Now usually whenever we get a paragraph, a paragraph is usually called as a corpus.

Okay.

With respect to documents, whenever you have any kind of sentences, you really need to understand

that this sentences are also usually called as documents.

What about vocabulary?

Vocabulary is nothing but all the unique words that are present in this paragraph.

That is basically called as vocabulary.

Usually we have a dictionary, right?

We usually say that.

What is the vocabulary in that particular dictionary?

All the unique words are the count of all the unique words, or all the unique words that is present

in the dictionary.

That is called as vocabulary and with respect to the words, all the words that are present in a corpus,

that we will basically define all those separately as a specific words itself.

So these are the basic terminologies that you really need to understand.

As said in this video, we are going to discuss about something called as tokenization.

And tokenization is a very important step whenever we try to solve any kind of use cases with respect

to NLP.

Now what exactly is tokenization, right.

So let's say that I have a paragraph I, I write over here that my name is Krish.

My name is Krish.

Okay?

And I have a.

I have an interest in teaching.

I have an interest in teaching.

Machine Learning, NLP and Deep Learning and DL.

Now, let's say that if I have this specific text, this test I can consider basically as paragraphs.

So this will be entirely corpus okay.

So this is my entire corpus that is available, which is nothing but a paragraph of, uh, words.

Right.

So if I probably combine all these words, it becomes a paragraph.

Now, tokenization is a process wherein we take either a paragraph or a sentences, and we convert this

into tokens.

Right now suppose let's say I want to perform a tokenization on this particular paragraph.

And over here from this paragraph the tokens that are usually generated, it will basically be called

as sentences or documents.

So let's say that I will be applying a tokenization on this.

And with respect to this, let's say that they I will try to convert this entire paragraph into sentence.

So I may also add one more line over here.

Let's say full stop.

I'm just writing one more full stop over here okay.

And I will also write that I am also a YouTuber.

Okay.

So these are the two sentences that is present in this paragraph.

So with respect to this particular tokenization, if I perform a tokenization on this paragraph it will

basically create sentences.

My first sentence in this particular case will be my name is Krish.

Okay.

And I have interest in.

Interest in teaching.

ML, NLP.

And LP and DL.

Okay.

So this what this is basically my document one or sentence one.

My next sentence that I'm going to probably write over here because the full stop is over here.

Right.

So when we convert from a paragraph, when we do talk tokenization from a paragraph into sentence,

it will be looking for this kind of characters like full stop or exclamation.

I'll show you practically how this can be actually done with the help of Python programming language.

So the second sentence that I will probably be having is like, I am also a YouTuber, right?

I am also a YouTuber.

So again, if you really want to understand what exactly is tokenization?

Tokenization is a simple process wherein we are converting a sentences into sorry, where we are converting

a paragraph into sentences.

Now, they may also be a scenario that let's say that I have some sentences, okay.

And on top of this I can also perform tokenization again.

So let's say on top of this I'm performing a tokenization.

Now, this tokenization technique that I'm probably applying will convert this sentences into words.

Right.

So let's say I say over here it is basically getting converted into words.

So each and every word will be a separate word.

So my will be a separate word.

Name will be a separate word is will be a separate word.

Crush will be a separate word and will be a separate word I will be separate word.

Have interest in teaching all this will be a separate words itself.

Right.

So this process is also called as tokenization.

So in short words can also be a token.

Sentences can also be a token.

Right.

This is very important to understand and why it is required.

Because this is a part of text pre-processing.

Because each and every word in NLP needs to be converted into a vectors.

So we really need to take up each word and try to do this kind of pre-processing.

And there are a lot of steps like cleaning and all, which I will also be showing you.

But in this video we are going trying to understand about tokenization.

So I hope you have got an idea about corpus.

You have got an idea about sentences.

Now let's go ahead and understand about vocabulary, which is also called as unique words.

Okay, now let's say I have two sentences I like to eat.

Apple juice.

Sorry.

How can we eat apple juice?

I like to drink.

Apple juice.

Okay here I will again continue and I'll write.

My friend likes.

Mango juice.

Okay, now let's say that this is my entire paragraph.

Okay.

Now, in this paragraph, you know how many sentences are there?

There are two sentences because there is a full stop over here.

Right.

So I will just divide this into tokens.

So let's say I'm going to perform something called as tokenization over here okay.

And this will get converted into tokens.

And right now the tokens that is present over here will be sentences.

Right.

So my first sentence will be I like to drink apple.

Juice.

So this is my first sentence.

And second sentence is nothing.

But because there is a full stop.

My friend likes mango juice.

Mango juice.

Now see when we have the sentences, obviously you can you can go and count each and every words.

Right.

Let's say how many total number of words are over here.

So if I probably go and count 1234, five, five, six, seven, eight 910.

Right.

So if I again count it 123456789 1011.

So total I have 11 words.

But if I try to count the unique words, how many unique words are there?

If I make the count again?

So I will be one unique word like another unique word one, two, three, four, five.

6789.

C like and likes are two different words, so I'll say 910.

But this juice is getting repeated, so the total number of unique words will basically be ten words

right.

Let's say instead of this likes there was something called as like at that point of time, the number

of unique word, the number of unique word will be 123456789.

Right.

I will not count like and juice right.

But already likes is there.

So it will be counted as a separate word.

So whenever I get this unique word as ten words, that basically means in my dictionary, in my this

complete paragraph, this is my vocabulary.

So this is all the possible words that I have, right?

That is the ten words right now since I have converted this into like so I'm just going to make this

as nine words.

I hope you are able to understand the basic differences between corpus documents, vocabulary, and

words.

Right, so this entire thing is super important when we are learning about tokenization.

Again, if somebody asks you what is the definition of tokenization, you can just say that tokenization

is a process to convert either a paragraph or a sentences into tokens.

If I convert a paragraph into tokens, that basically means I'm converting a paragraph into sentences.

I can also convert a paragraph into words, right?

So if I'm converting into a words, single single words becomes a token.

And if I'm trying to convert a paragraph into sentence, every sentence will be a token, right?

So I hope you are able to understand this.

Now, in my next video, I'll try to show you, with the help of NLTK library, how you can perform

tokenization with the help of Python.

So yes, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to NLP.

In our previous video, we have already seen about tokenization.

We have understood about basic terminologies like corpus paragraph.

We have understood vocabulary, we have understood about words.

Now let's go ahead and do some practical things.

You know how much we'll be learning with respect to theory.

So first of all, I'll just go ahead and open my Python three notebook file.

So here, uh, first of all, uh, and and for this right we are going to use libraries like NLTK.

Now NLTK is one amazing library.

Let me just go through this and let me just show you NLTK is a leading platform for building Python

programs to work with human language data.

So if you really want to work with NLP, things like tokenization, creating converting a sentence into

vectors can be easily done.

With the help of this NLTK libraries.

There is also one more library which we basically say it as spacy.

So if I probably search for spacy NLP.

So here you'll be able to see that again.

These all are completely open source libraries.

You can also use Spacy.

And I will also be showing you with the help of Spacy how you can perform different different things.

Right.

So Spacy is also there.

NLTK is also there.

One important assignment that I really want to give it is that try to find out the differences between

NLTK and Spacy and uh, just let me know probably in the comment section of this particular video or

in the upcoming videos.

Okay, so this one task, I want to really give it to you so that you try and try to understand what

is the difference between these two open source libraries.

Now, to begin with, uh, since uh, uh, we are going to initially start with NLTK.

Now what I'm actually going to do, I'm first of all going to install NLTK.

Now here you can directly install it from here.

Or you can also open the command prompt and directly install NLTK.

Right.

So what you have to do is that just write pip install nltk.

So once you do this automatically the installation will be done.

So what I'm actually going to do I'm going to basically install from here.

And I'm going to show you a tokenization example.

So let me write it down.

Tokenization uh example okay.

Perfect.

So this is the tokenization example.

So here you can see that uh collecting NLTK requirement already.

This is done.

The uh installation has been done.

A new release or release of Pip is available.

I don't want to update it right now, because this Pip will almost cover each and every thing right

now.

Right now.

Uh, this is perfect.

Now, what I'm actually going to do, I'm going to show you how we can perform tokenization.

Like, let's say if I have a paragraph, how I can convert it into sentences, and then how I can convert

into words all those things I'll be discussing and multiple ways of tokenization.

Also, I'll be showing you okay, so let me go ahead and let me make few cells so that I can directly

go ahead and execute it.

Now one thing over here.

Yeah.

Let's go ahead and let's start now over here.

First of all I will try to define my own corpus okay.

Corpus basically means paragraph.

So let's say uh, if I really want to create a multi-line comments I have to basically use this triple

quotes I will write.

Hello welcome.

Comma.

Okay, I'm just giving some sentences over here so that you'll be able to understand.

Okay.

So hello.

Welcome to Fresh Nick's.

Tutorials.

Or let's say I'll just write I neurons.

Right.

Or I will write something like this.

Krish Nayak NLP.

Krish Naik's NLP tutorials.

Okay, and this is my sentence okay.

And I can continue with my second line.

So I'll write.

Please do watch the entire course to.

I'm just writing exclamation.

I'm using different different characters over here to become expert.

An an LP.

Okay, so this is what I have actually done.

I've, I've basically defined a simple corpus, uh, which is just like a paragraph which has around

two sentences.

And I'm just going to use this particular corpus.

So let's go ahead and see this corpus.

Now once I see this corpus here, you can see that even though I just I'm just printing this right.

I can also print this C then the slash n will go slash n indicates the new line.

Okay.

So if I'm probably printing corpus here you will be able to see the text how it is basically visible.

Now with respect to tokenization, the first step that I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to

convert a sentence into paragraphs.

Okay.

So I'm going to basically convert a sentence into paragraphs.

So for this how do I convert it.

And with the help of NLTK it is definitely possible.

So I will write from NLTK dot tokenize okay.

And I'm going to just import okay.

So in NLTK there is uh there is a library which is called as tokenize.

And if I import this sent underscore tokenize.

So what sent underscore tokenize does is that it tries to convert a paragraph into sentences.

So this is the function that we are basically going to use or functionality that is going we are going

to use which is present inside NLTK dot tokenize.

Okay.

So you can just say that this is a kind of package inside this.

And I will initialize this package in order to convert a sentence into a, uh, sorry, a paragraph

into a sentences.

So here I'm just going to write send, tokenize.

And let me just go ahead and give my corpus.

So once I give my corpus here, you can see that it is giving us a list a list of sentence.

So here you can see over here this is my sentence over here.

Hello welcome to Crishna NLP tutorial.

So here you can see this is my first sentence and this is my second sentence.

And from exclamation also it has divided it because I'm getting three right.

So here you can see.

Hello!

Welcome to Crishna NLP tutorials.

Full stop.

As soon as it finds full stop it is just going to make a next sentence.

So here, wherever slash n was present, it is using that and wherever exclamation is also present.

It is basically making sure that a new sentence is getting created with respect to that.

And that is what sent tokenize actually does.

If you really want to find out the definition of this here, you can see that, uh, you can also provide

different different languages.

What are languages it supports.

You can just go ahead and have a look onto that.

And uh, if you don't find much documentation out of it.

So what you can do over here, you can just go and search for NLTK, send, tokenize right, send,

tokenize.

So you will be able to find out the documentation page directly.

And you can refer it from here.

Right.

There are different different tokenization.

See send tokenize.

Is there word tokenize is there which we are basically going to discuss right now.

We are going to focus on this okay.

So in short it returns a sent tokenized copy of text using NLTK.

Recommended sentence tokenizer and current class.

It uses this called as punk send tokenizer.

So along with the full stop, it is making sure that wherever exclamation is basically coming, it is

going to make us a uh, as a another sentence.

So this is perfect.

Uh, we are able to get this right now.

I will go with the next tokenization.

And before that, what I also want is that if I probably save this in a list of sentences.

So let's say this sentence is also called as documents, which I have already discussed in my previous

class, uh, previous session.

Right.

So if I probably go and see this documents, this is basically my list.

You can also check out with the help of type.

So type documents.

Right.

And if I probably want to iterate through this let's say from send in documents from from for sentences

for sentence and documents, I can also print this sentence parallelly.

Right.

So here I can just define it as sentence.

So this is my first sentence, second sentence and third sentence.

This is perfect.

We were able to do with respect to the sentences.

Now let's go ahead and do it with respect to the word tokenize.

So next tokenization technique.

What I am actually going to do is that.

But next organization is that I can convert a paragraph.

I can convert a paragraph in two words.

I can also convert a sentence into words.

Sentence into words.

Okay.

Perfect.

Now, for this what I'm actually going to do.

First of all, let's go ahead and see with respect to paragraph, uh, so already, uh, you know that,

uh, uh, with respect to converting a paragraph into words, I'll be using again another library so

I can write from NLTK.

Dot okay.

Tokenize.

From NLTK dot tokenize okay spelling mistake is there.

So tokenize I'm going to import word.

Let me just write it down.

Word tokenize.

Okay.

So here we can basically use this word tokenize over here.

And let me just execute it over here.

And let me go ahead and write word tokenize.

And here if I directly give us my corpus here, you can see that each and every word has been divided.

Hello world and hello, welcome where you can see all the characters like comma full stop has been treated

as a separate character altogether or separate words altogether.

Right?

So here you can definitely clearly see that each and every word has been splitted with respect to this

only one word that is not having this right.

So if I probably go and see over here hello, welcome to Krishna.

So this kind of word has not been splitted.

This all is being considered as a single word.

But if I consider with respect to full stop, with respect to exclamation, with respect to comma,

it has been considered as a separate word.

So here also you can find it out with respect to this.

Right.

So this is very very simple with respect to uh converting a paragraph into words.

And why do we do this?

Because each and every word will have a different importance.

And we really need to perform some pre-processing on top of it.

So right now initially when you get it, you know, which are the important words, you have to take

it, you have to pre-process, you have to clean it, you know, and uh, that is the reason why we

specifically focus on each and every word.

Okay.

So this was about the word tokenize.

And uh, now with respect to sentences, also, you know that how you can basically do just go over

here and just write paste it over here for sentences in this.

Now here you are printing the sentences right now.

What you can basically do in that is that after you probably get this sentence, after you get the sentence

altogether, you can just directly apply word tokenize, right?

So here you can basically write word tokenize on sentences.

So you will be able to print everything over here.

Right.

So hello welcome to this this this this uh, please do watch the entire course.

This this is there.

Right.

Perfect.

So here we have seen that.

How we can basically convert a sentence into words right now, you can also do one thing, uh, over

here is that you can use another one more library.

Let me just talk about one more library.

Probably you have seen that.

So I'm going to just write word Punkt tokenize.

And in this word Punkt tokenize, what we are basically going to do is that if I try to apply this,

if I try to initialize this word punk tokenize, and if I try to provide my corpus, let's say so here

you just try to find out the difference.

And one difference that is clearly seen is that this apostrophe s has also got splitted before it was

not getting splitted, right.

See, apostrophe s was a single word, but now you can see that it has been splitted.

So that is the reason why we are using this.

Punctuations.

Uh, this punctuation is it is basically, uh, making sure that the punctuation will also be treated

as a separate word.

Perfect.

So this is good.

There is also one more technique which is basically called as uh, treebank word tokenizer.

And also again, I'll try to tell you the difference what exactly it is with respect to Treebank a word

tokenizer.

So, uh, I'll just try to execute it and you try to find out the differences with respect to that.

Let's see how much you will be able to do so.

I will write from NLTK dot tokenize.

Import.

Treebank tokenizer, so I will initialize this Treebank tokenizer.

Okay, let's say that I'm initializing this into tokenizer.

Something like this something to one variable.

And then I can basically use a function which is called as tokenizer dot tokenize.

And once I give my corpus here, you will be able to see that I'm actually able to get it.

Okay.

Now just see over this.

What is the difference with respect to this?

You will definitely be able to find out some difference when comparing with this specific thing.

Okay, so just let me know what is the difference that you are able to see.

I know there is a very minute difference.

So with the let me tell you the answer, you can just pause for some time and but you can check it out.

But let me tell you an answer with the help of Treebank word tokenizer here you can see that full stop

will not be treated as a separate word.

It will be included in the previous word itself.

Now here you can see that full stop was a separate word.

Here.

Also, you can see that full stop is a separate word, right?

But with respect to the last word right, full stop will be separate, you know because here you can

see that, right?

If I probably see the sentence right after this we have a new line.

Right.

And after this our sentence is getting closed for the last full stop.

Only it will be considering as a separate word.

But with respect to this particular full stop, it will be considering as a part of this it will not

be considered as a separate word only.

This is the difference with respect to this.

And again, it can be handy in some of the use cases, but not in all.

But at in a generic way, we basically most of the time use word tokenize or send tokenize.

Right.

So yes, uh, this was it.

With respect to the tokenization example, I hope you liked this particular video.

Please make sure that you practice.

You have to really practice a lot with respect to this.

You can take your own example, try out with different different sentences.

With that you will be becoming better with this specific algorithm.

So yes, I will see you all in the next video.

Thank.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

And now we are going to move towards some more techniques with respect to text pre-processing.

Already in our previous video we have seen tokenization.

We have seen that how we can convert a paragraph into sentences and then probably a paragraph into words,

or converting a sentences into words.

Right?

So in short, we have seen that how we can actually do tokenization with the help of NLTK.

So in this video we are going to focus on something called as stemming, which is a very important process

altogether.

And uh, what exactly is stemming?

I'll also provide you the definition.

We'll also see a lot of examples with respect to that.

And we'll also try to see the different types of stemming.

So I have opened a file over here.

So here you can see regarding the stemming.

And I have also given the definition.

Now let's understand what exactly this is with some good examples.

Now first of all we will see the definition over here.

It shows that stemming and this definition is taken from the Wikipedia.

So stemming is the process of reducing a word to its word stem okay.

This is super important guys to its word stem that affixes or suffixes or prefixes or to the roots of

the word known as lemma okay.

Stemming is important in natural language understanding and natural language processing.

Now what exactly this is?

I'll tell you some examples.

Let's say I want to just create some cell below okay.

Over here if I have lot of text.

Right.

Let's say that I'm trying to solve a sentiment or I'm just trying to solve a classification problem.

Classification problem.

And the classification problem is very simple.

We basically need to find out whether the comments on the product.

Is a.

Positive review.

Or negative review.

Right.

So when we are solving this kind of problem statement.

So in this what we'll be having in our data set, we'll be having the comments or reviews I can say.

I'll be having reviews and based on this particular reviews and this reviews will obviously be some

kind of text data.

And we need to basically create a model where then we can basically classify whether it is a positive

review or negative review.

That is very simple.

Now usually in this reviews let's say that I have some of the words like eating okay.

Or it can be eat right or it can be like eaten right.

It can be different kind of words, but at the end of the day, it actually represents the same thing

regarding eating.

Right?

So this is basically eat.

Eat is the root word.

Or I can also say it is the stem word, word stem of this all the words.

Right.

Because eat is very much common.

And having this variety of words for a problem statement will not impact much with respect to finding

the output like positive or negative review.

Try to understand what I'm actually trying to say over here.

I may have different kind of words like eating, eat, eaten, or they may be also other words like

I can also make a combination of like going, gone, right, gone goes right.

At the end of the day, it is basically talking about go right.

So go is a word stem of all these words that are present, right.

So it is not necessary that we need to have similar kind of words again and again, because this increases

the number of input features.

In short, because each and every word represents a vector, as we'll see as we'll go ahead, you know,

after text pre-processing will try to convert this text into vectors.

So having this similar kind of words, instead of having this similar kind of words, I can just have

one word that is just like go right.

And it will try to and will try to solve the problem with respect to that.

So stemming is actually helping us to do this same thing.

So finding this word stem can be actually done with the help of stemming.

And there is also a concept which is called as lemmatization.

We'll try to understand the difference as we go ahead.

But first of all let's go ahead and see that how with the help of NLTK we can perform stemming.

Okay, so what I'm actually going to do is that I'm just going to take some examples.

Let's say that I have all these words okay.

So I'm just going to remove this.

And let's say that I have all these words now.

Right now you have words like eating eats eaten, writing rights, programming programs, history finally

and finalized okay.

So I'm just going to execute it and let me make some more cells.

Okay.

So I'm just going to delete this cell because I don't require it.

Okay I'll just create a cell below.

Okay.

And let me express exp exp and let us go ahead.

Right.

So here you can see all these particular words are there.

Now let's see how we can find out the word stem of all these particular words.

With the help of stemming, the first stemming technique that we are probably going to use is something

called as Porter stemmer.

Okay.

Porter stemmer.

And there are again different different types of stemming techniques which I will probably be showing

you.

And then we'll be able to understand that what all things it will be able to give us.

Okay.

Now in order to apply this Porter stemmer, it is very much simple.

In Analytica already those functionalities basically present.

So I will just write from NLTK dot stem.

Import.

Porter.

Stemmer.

Okay.

So once I initialize this here, you can see this I'm going to use this Porter stemmer which is just

a kind of class.

And for this we have to initialize it.

We have to initialize an object for that.

So let me just create an object.

And this will basically be my stemming.

And once I do this now in the next step, what I'm actually going to do for each and every word, I'm

just going to apply the stemming process.

Okay.

So it's very simple.

How do I do it?

I will just iterate it.

So I'll say for word.

For word in words.

Right.

And here I'm basically going to write print.

And let me write it down as word plus.

I'll just give some type of marking.

This is the word and the stem part will be nothing, but I'll be using the same object stemming.

Dot stem.

There is a functionality.

There is a function called as stem which will actually whenever we push any words inside this, it will

do the stemming thing that basically means for eating.

Probably it may give you eat for eats, it may give you eat right.

So something like that.

So I'm just going to give my word over here.

So once I execute now here you can see that perfect eating is coming as eat eats comes as eat eaten

is coming as eaten.

Only writing is coming as write which is good.

Writes comes as write.

Programming comes with program.

Programs is nothing but program study.

Here you can see history is becoming history.

Uh, history.

So here it is a major issue.

Right.

And I'll also talk about the disadvantages.

Finally becomes final.

Finalized becomes final.

This is this is there right now.

Let's say that, uh, over here it looks good, right?

Probably for eaten.

You can see that nothing has happened.

It is given the same word.

But if you see some words like history now here you are actually getting history, right.

So the entire meaning of this particular word has actually changed.

And this is the major disadvantage of stemming when stemming is basically applied, you know, for some

of the words, you know, you may not get a correct exact meaning, the form of that specific word may

change.

So this is the major, major disadvantage with respect to stemming.

Let me show you some more examples.

Now suppose if I say stemming dot stem I'm just going to apply this particular Stem word on a word called

as congratulations okay.

And if I execute it here you can see the word.

The meaning of the word is basically changing.

It should have told like something like congratulate right.

But here you can see congratulate.

It is being it is basically changing the form of the word.

Now the word does not have any kind of meaning, right.

So this is again one major, major disadvantage of stemming.

Okay.

Similarly, if I probably try to show you something like stemming dot stem, and if I probably write

something like sitting.

So here you will be able to see.

Let me just write it down.

Sit.

Now, see, first sitting, it is giving a very good word.

So that basically stemming works for a very good number of words.

But for some words it does not give us a good answer.

Right.

So this is the major disadvantage of stemming.

And this all will get fixed with the help of lemmatization.

But whenever you have any kind of problem statements like, uh, classification, problem review, classification

or we really want to see whether it is whether an email is a spam or a ham, right.

Whether it is a spam or not, a spam, we should definitely go ahead with using stemming, you know?

And uh, again, some of the words will not come in the right form.

But yes, instead of using Porter Stemmer, we have other different kind of stemming stemmer techniques,

which we can definitely use to improve it.

Okay, now let me go with respect to the second one.

Now, with respect to the second one, I'm just going to delete this cell because we don't require it.

The second cell is that which is called as Régis Stemmer class.

Now this regular expression stemmer class, it is nothing.

But this is a class with the help of which we can easily implement regular expression Stemmer algorithm.

So we can just provide a regular expression and it will be able to apply the stemming purpose in that.

Okay, so it basically takes a single regular expression and remove any prefix or suffix that matches

the expression.

Perfect.

Now what I'll do, I'll just create a cell below.

And again I will make some more cells and I'll try to show you some example.

Now first of all we need we need to initialize this.

So I will write from NLTK dot stem import.

What is the name regex.

Right.

So I'm just going to write reg as stem perfect.

Then we basically need to initialize it.

So I'll say reg underscore stemmer is equal to stem right.

So I've initialize it.

This is perfect.

Uh it is giving us an uh error saying that regular expression is required.

Now this is super important.

Now let's press go ahead and press shift and Tab.

Now here you can see the first parameter that goes is something called as regular expression okay.

And this is some minimum value.

We'll try to understand what is exactly it is now here you can see a stemmer that uses regular expression

to identify morphology affixes.

Right.

Understand this morphological affixes.

I'll try to show you an example.

If you don't know the meaning of this, any substring that match the regular expression will match will

be removed.

So this morphological affixes is basically, in short, a regular expression which will match whatever

words we are basically giving.

And if it matches, it will get removed.

Okay, now let's take some example.

Okay.

Over here, uh, and uh, here you can see that this parliament, uh, is the minimum length of the

string to stem.

Okay.

So if the minimum length is somewhere around four then only you will be able to apply this.

So I'm just going to apply this same thing.

And I'm going to paste it over here.

Okay.

So here is my index.html.

Now what I'm actually going to do I'm just going to write reg dot stemmer.

Now you should understand over here what I have actually given.

I have given eng dollar okay here I am given s dollar e dollar able dollar.

Okay, so I have given all this regular expression and this will make completely sense when I will be

implementing it.

Now you see, just pause the video and just let me know what is the output that you feel will be getting

for this.

Eating now eating.

You should see over here ING.

Is there a regular expression?

Is there so.

But dollar is also there.

Okay, this is super important.

Dollar is also there.

Now if I try to execute this I am able to get something called as eat.

Okay.

Now in short what this is happening is that this is basically saying that wherever on the last word

it is ING, or it is s or it is E, or it is able, just try to remove that.

Now the next example that I really want to give is that let's say I want to I have this particular word

I n g.

Okay.

So here you can see I ING eating right.

What do you think the output will be.

Will it.

Whether it will be eat or whether it will be something else.

Okay.

So here if I try to execute it here you'll be seeing I ING eat.

Why.

Because the regular expression says that only in the last last dollar.

If I probably remove dollar if I just execute it now, see, everything will get removed.

Okay.

Or probably I just want in the starting.

So I'll just use this.

So here you can see I ING eating.

So this this will not work okay.

So we can basically have something like this.

Uh, and we can basically check how we can actually remove it.

So this is perfect.

So here you can see wherever ING is there it is getting removed.

Perfect.

So this is good.

We have done this okay.

ING eat.

Now let's say that uh I also want to try something else.

Uh, you can definitely try with different different word.

You can use this able e s whatever regular expression you can basically write.

You can go ahead and write it and you can check it okay.

So this is with respect to regular expression Stemmer class.

Now uh, the next one that we are basically going to discuss, uh, and uh, let's see where this is.

Porter stemmer.

This this this this this again.

It has written the same thing.

I don't want to write the same thing.

I'll go ahead with something called as Snowball Stemmer.

And this is also an amazing technique and this is a better technique when compared to.

Okay, so snowball Stemmer, I think I've given the definition somewhere here.

No no no no.

Okay.

Snowball stemmer is again a stemming technique.

But in this snowball stemmer, it is.

It performs better than this Porter stemmer.

Okay, that is the reason why Snowball Stemmer had actually come.

Initially we came up with Porter Stemmer.

We saw that a lot of things, a lot of words were getting messed up, you know.

So that is the reason why we use Snowball Stemmer, because it gives a better accuracy when compared

to the, uh, porter stemmer.

When I say accuracy, better form of a word.

Okay, now for using snowball stemmer.

What I'll do, I'll write from sklearn dot stem import snowball stemmer.

So here you can see I'll just write snowball.

For my sklearn.

Oh, not for my sklearn.

Sorry for my NLTK because it is basically present in the NLTK, right?

So from NLTK dot stem import snowball stemmer and I'm just going to import it.

Then we are going to initialize with respect to snowball stemmer.

And let's see what are the parameters.

So here first of all snowball stemmer is also provided with different different languages like uh Arabic,

okay Danish, uh English, Finnish, French German, Hungarian, Italian.

So you can use basically all these words.

Okay.

So for right now I'm just going to use English.

So what I'm going to do is that I'm in quotes.

I will just say English okay.

And uh, I'll just use this.

And finally I will basically use a snowball stemmer over here.

I will just create a variable okay.

And just execute it.

Perfect.

Now the next thing is that I will just use another condition saying that for word in words.

Okay.

And, uh, I'll just write, uh, for words.

In words, uh, so I'll write snowball stemmer dot stem.

On word.

Okay, but I'll print this in a better way so that you'll be able to understand it.

So print.

Word.

Plus.

And this will be like this.

Something like this.

Just for formatting purpose.

I'm writing this so that it will look good, better for you all.

And here I'm just going to write the word right.

So same thing what I did in the things.

So here you can see that I'm getting eating as eat eats as eat eat n as eat.

Right right.

This is all fine right?

For history.

Also, it is not being able to give the correct form.

Right.

Then you may be thinking Krish, then what is the difference?

Right?

But let's see with respect to some porter stemmer where this porter stemmer will give some bad results

or bad form of the word, and where the snowball will give us a better form of a word.

So for this, I'm just going to, uh, execute this line of code.

So here you can see when I'm applying the stemming.

The stemming was for the Porter stemmer.

Right?

When I apply stemming dot stem on fairly and sportingly.

So what is the output that I'm getting?

I'm getting fairly and sportingly right.

L I l I, but if I try to use the same word with respect to snowball, right here, you will be able

to see.

Just let me write the snowball stemmer here.

We'll be able to see.

I am getting some amazing answers.

Snowballs.

Stemmer okay.

Okay, let me just remove this.

I think there is a problem with respect to this.

Now it will work.

Okay.

Snowball stemmer.

Comma.

I will just copy this and I'll apply to the same word something called as sportingly.

Okay.

So now if you probably go and see I'm getting a good output, which is like fair and sport.

So all together you will be seeing that snowball stemmer when applied to various other words performs

better than stemming.

Right.

So here see Porter Stemmer is obviously a technique where you will be able to find out the word stem.

But for many of the words it is not being able to give a good answers.

Some of the examples are like fairly, sportingly and all.

Now, in order to overcome this disadvantage, Snowball stemmer is basically used.

And again guys understand these are some techniques which will actually help you to find out the word

Stem and where it is specifically getting used in text pre-processing.

You really need to clean the data.

You need to make sure that the data is ready, so that we will be able to convert it into vectors in

an efficient way, right?

So in this part we have seen about stemming.

And again one major disadvantage of stemming is that obviously see even though Snowball stemmer is performing

exceptionally well, but some of the words like history, they'll be also something like going right.

So suppose if I probably write this right snowball dot stem right.

And if I use going I think going whether it will give us good or not.

So going is performing well if I write goes.

So here you can see for goes.

Also it gives us a bad word right.

Even stemming dot stem if I probably try to see this right.

So in short how much we try.

Right.

For some of the words obviously the form of the word is changing.

So this is one of the disadvantage with respect to stemming.

And understand that for use cases like chat bots and all these techniques cannot be used.

So for that we have to go ahead with something called as lemmatization, because Lemmatization solves

all this particular problem because it has the dictionary of all the words, all the root words that

is basically there.

So whatever word you basically give, it will be giving you a good grammatical form of the word.

Like If I'm giving goes, it will be go.

If I'm giving fairly, it will be fair.

You know, if I'm giving eating, it will be eat.

So that kind of disadvantage is getting removed completely with the help of Lemmatization.

And that particular part we'll be seeing in the next video.

So I hope you have understood till here.

Please make sure that you try practice with different different examples.

And yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video we are going to discuss about Lemmatization.

In our previous video we have already seen something called as stemming.

We understood that stemming is the process of reducing a word to its word stem.

Right.

And we understood what is the disadvantage of stemming because for some of the words right, when we

perform stemming, we do not get the correct form of the word then and the entire meaning of the word

actually gets changed.

And please remember this word which is called as word stem, right?

So in short, this is just a kind of algorithm which tries to find out the word stem.

But for some of the words it is working absolutely fine.

We have seen different types of stemming techniques like porter stemmer, stemmer snowball stemmer.

And we also found out that snowball stemmer was better than porter stemmer.

So all these things were covered today in this video.

Right now in this video, we are going to discuss about Lemmatization and the Lemmatization technique

that we are going to use is something called as word net Lemmatizer.

I have already told you what is the disadvantage of stemming because the words that we are getting is

not in the correct form.

The meaning of the word is basically changing.

So in order to prevent that, we use something called as Lemmatizer.

And in this we have something called as word net Lemmatizer.

Now what is Lemmatizer okay, Lemmatization technique is like stemming the output will we will get after

Lemmatization is called lemma, which is a root word.

Understand this, which is a root word like.

Suppose if I have eating, then it will become.

Eat is the root word right?

If I probably talk about history, history is the root word, right?

If I talk about go goes, go is the root word.

Right over here we are getting the stem word right in stemming right.

It will probably apply an algorithm.

And with respect to that it will try to find out the stem word right word stem.

We basically said this as but here we get the root exact word.

So again the main aim of Lemmatizer is to give you the exact form of the word which is meaningful and

it does not change the meaning as it was happening in stemming itself.

So here you have rather than the root stem, the output of the stem.

Now again I will repeat the definition Lemmatization technique is like a stemming.

The output we will get after lemmatization is called lemma, which is a root word rather than the root

stem.

The output of stemming after lemmatization we will get.

We will be getting a valid word that means the same thing.

So suppose if there are words like eating, eats, eaten, it will become eat only right?

So it will be giving you a meaningful word which will represent many words over there.

Okay, so NLTK provides WordNet Lemmatizer class and I'll try to show you with respect to this and understand,

guys, uh, you know, this lemmatization occurs or it, it gets performed with the help of this word

net corpus reader.

So there will be a dictionary kind of words which will be comparing from there and will be able to do

the WordNet advertiser very much properly.

So first of all, let's go ahead and see that how we can basically implement it.

So first of all I will try to import from NLTK stem uh import word.

Net Lemmatizer.

Okay.

So I'm just going to import this and this word.

Net Lemmatizer.

Uh, again helps us to perform Lemmatization.

Uh, so first of all, I'll create an object.

So I will write Lemmatizer.

And here I'm just going to write word net Lemmatizer.

So here, if I see this it is nothing but word net.

So let me just go ahead and execute it.

So this has got executed perfectly.

Now one thing that you really need to see that okay.

So I will just be writing something called as let's say let's try some easy word.

Okay.

So Lemmatizer is equal to oh I'm just going to say dot lemmatize.

So there is a function which is called as lemmatize.

And here I have to give my words.

So let's say if I'm giving going and if I try to see the answer I'm actually getting going.

So that basically means that it is a uh, it is trying to find out the root word with respect to this,

but let's go and see the functionality of Lemmatize.

In Lemmatize we give two important parameters.

One is word and this is something called as post tag.

Okay, I will talk about this post tag.

Right now it is written as n n basically means this word that I'm actually passing.

It is being treated as a noun.

So you may be thinking, Krish, how many uh post tax will be there?

So let me just write down a comment over here.

Okay.

So here you have different different post tag for noun.

We give it as small n for verb.

We give it as v for adjective, we give it as a for adverb, we give it as r.

Now what I'm actually going to do by default right now the post tag is n, right?

So for with respect to n I'm getting this output.

Okay.

Let's say I change it to V because I just want to show you whether this will be changed or not.

Now when I give post tag as n we I'm just saying that consider going as a noun keyword, but going is

not a noun keyword, right?

But if I consider with respect to verb.

All you see with respect to verb, I am able to get a good lemmatization that is like go, okay?

Similarly, if I probably try to see with respect to a adjective.

So here you can see I'm getting going.

Right?

And obviously this going is a kind of verb, right?

It is not an adjective.

And let's say if I try to go with respect to adverb here also I am getting going right now with respect

to this going word.

Right?

I feel verb is the correct one, which we really need to selected.

Now let me do one thing though.

All the words that I had copied over here.

Right?

Let's apply this entire lemmatization on this entire words.

Okay.

So I'm just going to execute this and execute it.

And again I'm just going to write this for loop okay.

And I'm just going to copy this instead of writing stemming dot stem I'm just going to write Lemmatizer

dot Lemmatize okay.

And I'm just going to apply for this words.

Now see this eating is becoming eating eats becomes eat eat and eaten.

Writing writing rights right.

Programming programs programs has become program because again by default in this lemmatize remember

that I have given my post tag as n right?

We are considering that all these words, all these words are basically noun.

Okay, so programming programs history finally.

So here you'll be seeing that Lemmatization has not occurred that much.

We have not done any kind of we have not able to find out because it is being considered as a noun and

in noun whenever we give noun.

Suppose.

Let's say that all my words has names and in names.

Obviously those lemmatization does not occur, right?

So if I have, like Krishna, if I have Sudhanshu Kumar, if I have this kind of words, which is name,

right?

In short, this is nouns, right?

We have some famous place name like Taj Mahal, India, uh, places name and.

All right.

So this all will be considered as nouns, right?

So that basic difference you really need to know in order to understand this.

Let's say that I want to again convert this into adjective.

So here you can see eating has become it's it's writing.

Everything is same.

Right.

But now let me try with respect to verb because most of these words are basically verbs itself.

Right.

So here you can see eating has become eat eats has become eat writing right.

Write programming program this history.

Now you can see this, right?

Uh, history is becoming as history only in stemming.

We used to get something like history.

Right.

So this is quite amazing, right.

Finally, finally and this all.

And we could also see that in stemming.

Right.

We also have some of the words which are not actually being able to perform well.

Right.

Like fairly and sportingly and all right.

And even goes right.

So suppose if I probably go ahead and write something like Lemmatizer dot Lemmatize and let's say I'm

going to write something like goes, right.

So I'm going to get go which is good.

Right.

And here I can also play with post tag.

Right.

So let's say if I'm using a V post tag I'm going to get go.

Let me go and try with this.

So here I'm just going to write Lemmatizer okay.

And I'm just going to say try to do with this fairly.

Let's see what kind of output we are getting.

Now.

This Lemmatizer is super amazing right?

Because it is giving you the good word form.

And the meaning of the word is also maintained.

Right?

So here you can see fairly sportingly.

Now let me write a post tag obviously because it was noun.

So it may not give you something.

So here also with respect to verb also I'm getting the same answer which is good right.

So this is just to tell you that how good lemmatization is.

But one question that I really wanted to ask you, which will take more time word, advertiser or stemming?

The answer is simple word net Lemmatizer.

Why?

Because you can see NLTK provides world lemmatizer cross within a thin wrapper around a word net corpus.

So it is going to compare from there, right?

It uses Morphe function to the word net corpus reader clash to find a lemma.

So this will basically take time.

Right now I just have some number of words.

So it is happening very fast.

But if you have a paragraph, if you have a bigger sentence, lemmatization is going to take time,

right.

So this is the basic difference between stemming and repetition for which use cases you can use this.

Uh, one simple use case is, uh, if I really want to write a Q&amp;A chat bots.

Right.

Chat bots, all this is an amazing examples for all this, right?

You can basically use this, right?

So let me write it down.

Q&amp;A chat bots.

Right.

Uh text summarization.

Right.

Uh, Q and A that these are some of the examples which you can basically consider.

Uh, text summarization is also one example.

And in many, many companies it is being used.

So.

Right.

So you can use basically all these things and you can basically uh implement a word learn advertiser

over there because you get the exact good form of the word that is the root form of the word, which

is meaningful.

Right.

So I hope, uh, you are able to understand about lemmatization, you are able to find out the differences

between stemming and lemmatization.

Uh, this was it.

Uh, and I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we'll be continuing the discussion.

With respect to natural language processing.

We are still in text pre-processing techniques.

We have seen tokenization.

We have seen stemming.

We have also seen its different types.

Along with that we have seen Lemmatization.

Now we are going to consider a topic which is called as Stopwords.

So in this video I'm going to discuss about Stopwords the importance of Stopwords.

And again I'll show you with the help of NLTK.

Now, text processing is a very important step in natural language processing because you really need

to clean the data.

You need to make the data in the right format.

Later on, we'll try to convert all this text data into vectors, and then only we'll be able to train

the model.

Because model you know, whenever we say any machine learning model internally, we really need to train

with some mathematical equations.

So whenever we train something with mathematical equations there, we really need to give the input

data in the form of numerical or floating values.

So let us go ahead and let us understand what exactly stopwords is.

So I have opened a new notebook file over here.

So here I have one amazing speech from doctor APJ Abdul Kalam.

He was the former President of India and it was an amazing speech.

You can probably read out completely over here and obviously it is given in the materials.

Now, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to probably talk about Stopwords and why it is

important that we should try to remove the stopwords.

Okay.

And, uh, just for a definition, what exactly is Stopwords?

Now here in this particular speech, you can see that, uh, there are a lot of sentences like, I have

three visions for India in 3000 years of our history, people from all over the world have come and

invaded us.

So this is the entire speech.

It is an amazing speech.

If you are probably learning it, I would like to just, uh, tell you that please read this.

Uh, you'll be getting a lot of information out of it.

Very motivational speech altogether.

Now, from this particular speech, you can see that.

And I can definitely say this as paragraph or corpus right now here there are some words like I the

have and, you know, uh, let's say off uh, the, you know, two there.

Why write all this kind of words.

Right.

It will not play a very big role when we are doing, uh, task like spam classification or let's say

if you are trying to do some kind of task with respect to, uh, you know, uh, like spam or ham classification,

I have already told about that.

And, uh, along with that, to just see that whether this is a positive review or negative review,

but some of the words like not can actually play a very important role.

Not and all.

So what we do is that with the help of Stopwords, you know, we try to remove this particular words

because, uh, with this kind of use cases where you are specifically focusing on some of the important

words to determine the output, this all words like I the he she off there is not at all required.

So what we can do is that we can basically pass this entire paragraph to that particular stopwords and

see that what all words can be basically removed.

Okay.

And that is the importance of stopwords, in short.

So let us go ahead right now.

I'll just go ahead and execute it.

Let me make some cells so that it will be very much easy for you all to understand and how we can apply

Stopwords.

Along with Stopwords, you can also apply stemming.

So I'll show you both the combination, uh, which will be super important for everyone.

Okay.

So let's go ahead and let's uh, try to do that okay.

Now first of all, I really need to import, uh, for stemming.

You obviously know what we need to import.

So from for stemming I'll write for NLTK dot stem import porter stem.

So I can basically write Porter Stemmer over here and I'll execute it along with this.

Uh, I obviously need to also import Stopwords because stopwords for English, it will be different

because you'll be having that entire list of words like the he, she and.

All right.

So what I'm going to do is that I'm going to say that from NLTK dot corpus import stopwords.

So from this I will be able to use the stopwords itself.

So now I have imported uh from an indicator corpus import Stopwords.

Now this Stopwords, you know, I have to also download it.

So for that, uh, let me do one thing.

I'll also import a NLTK and I will execute it.

And along with that I'll write nltk dot download.

And here in the parameter I will I'm going to give about the stopwords.

And there are different different language stopwords also.

And we'll also try to see that.

So if I probably write this here you'll be able to see that downloading package Stopwords to this particular

location.

So the package stopwords is already up to date and I'm getting true.

So in short I've downloaded all the different different languages Stopwords which is already present

in the NLTK library.

Perfect.

Now we have done that.

Now let's see that what are the Stopwords that are available in English?

So in order to do that I am.

I have already imported from NLTK corpus import Stopwords.

I'll take this Stopwords.

I'll copy and paste it over here and I will say dot download okay.

Or instead of download I will just write dot words.

And here I just need to give my language like what language I really want to, uh, give it for like

English or something else, like German and all.

So I'm just going to write this.

Let me just write English.

And if I execute this here, now you can see the list of all the stopwords that you obviously have and

all the stopwords can actually be removed.

Right now you may be thinking, Chris, this may depend on data to data.

Right now here you can see that guys, this is a list.

You can also create your own stopwords in English.

Like let's say over here.

Some of the important words are like aunt couldn't write these.

All words can actually play a very important role.

Uh, to find out whether a statement is positive or negative, like not is also there.

If you probably search for it not, you'll also be able to find it not.

Okay.

So it is always a good way that you create your own stopwords and try to remove all those kind of words

from the paragraph.

So I hope everybody is able to understand.

Now with respect to English, you have this.

Now let's see whether we have with respect to different, different language.

And obviously you can go ahead and check the documentation, but I will just try to show you with respect

to German.

So in German also you have this specific stopwords.

Along with this you can also use French.

You have this particular stopwords.

So with respect to different different texts or different different language of text, you can definitely

apply different different stopwords with respect to that.

Now you may be thinking, is there Hindi or Arabic or some other?

I think for Arabic also, I think it is there.

Let's see whether it is there or not.

Yes, for Arabic also it is there, but I do not find it for Hindi I guess.

So again from the documentation you can check it out, but till Arabic I was able to see it again.

All the information will be given in the documentation.

Now what I'm actually going to do is that my sentence is already English.

Right now I'm going to perform two important tasks.

One is I will apply stemming.

And before applying stemming, you know what I'm actually going to do wherever I find out the stopwords,

I'm just going to remove the stopwords from this particular paragraph so that this entire paragraph

will be shortened up.

Right.

So for that, what I'm actually going to do.

Now, see, whatever things you have learned from starting everything, I'm actually going to cover

up.

Okay.

So first thing first I'm just going to say from NLTK dot stem I'm going to import Porter stemmer.

Porter Stemmer and I'll just execute.

I'm just going to execute this.

Okay.

And then what I'm actually going to do is that I'm just going to write Stemmer is equal to Porter stemmer

this.

We really need to initialize it.

Now when we do this task right now, the next step, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going

to perform the tokenization on the entire paragraph.

So for that I can use NLTK, dot, send, tokenize.

And here I'm just going to give my paragraph.

Now see this guys here I'm going to get my entire paragraph, entire sentences like see I have three

visions for India that in 3000 years this is all things I am able to get.

And this is my second sentence.

Third sentence.

Fourth sentence.

Like this.

All the sentences in the form of list I am able to get just by using sent underscore tokenize.

Right?

This is a tokenization process wherein we take a paragraph, divide that into sentences.

Okay, now let me do one thing, is that I'm just going to save this in a variable which is called as

sentences, which will let later become an list.

Right.

So this is my sentences.

And if you probably see the type of sentences I'm just going to basically see this.

It is a list now.

Perfect till here.

We have done it amazingly well right.

We have done Porter Stemmer on that.

Uh sorry.

We have initialized stemmer over here and we have tokenized it.

Now understand, what we are going to do is that I'm going to traverse to all the sentences.

First of all, apply a stopwords which all words are not present in the stopwords we are only going

to take that and apply stemming.

This is what we really want to do.

So here I'm saying that first of all.

Apply stopwords.

And filter.

And then apply.

Tokenization.

Right?

Sorry.

Then apply stemming.

So this is the step that I'm actually going to do.

Now see this very simple very important.

So I'll write a for loop saying that for I in range.

For I in range.

And here I'm going to basically give the length of the sentences.

I can also go with respect to sentences, but there I'll not be getting the indexes here.

I'll be getting the indices.

Okay.

So range basically says that whatever length I'm actually giving that becomes an index right?

Zero to that specific length.

Now what I'm actually going to take, I'm going to take this specific n um I and I'm going to write

n nltk dot word tokenize because I'm getting in the form of sentences, I need to get each and every

word right.

So I'm getting the word over here and inside word underscore tokenize.

I'll give I sorry sentence of I because this will be an index.

Sentences off I.

So this will be an index.

And here I'll be able to get the word.

So here what I'll do I'll make a list of words.

So in short I'll be getting the list of words inside the sentences.

Perfect.

Now till here we have done it.

Now after this we are going to apply one very important thing that is.

First of all, I need to apply stop words for each and every word and see whether it falls in the stop

word or not.

If it does not fall in the stop word, then only I have to do the stemming.

So understand the task step by step.

This is super important with respect to all the steps that I'm actually taking up.

Okay, so here I will write a list comprehension.

I will say stemmer dot stem okay.

And here I'm going to write dot word okay.

Uh of the word because uh, from this particular words, this words is a list of words.

And I have to take each and every word.

So here I will write a for loop okay.

And this is called as list comprehension.

So I'll write for word in words if word not in C if the word is not present in the stop words then only

you apply stemming.

That is what I'm actually trying to do.

Okay, so here you can basically see if the word is not in.

I'll use a set.

Along with that I will download all the all the stop words with respect to English.

Right.

So why I'm using step set because some of the words may get repeated.

So I don't want that.

So I'm going to basically write it over here right now through this.

What I'm actually going to do, I'll get that specific word that is not present in the stop words.

And only stemming will be getting applied to that specific word.

Perfect.

Now here what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to save it in a variable called as words perfect.

I hope it is very much clear.

I'm getting back everything after doing the stemming back in the words itself.

And then finally, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to take this sentences, and I'm

going to replace it on the same index with respect to this words.

But once we get this words right, I need to join all these words together.

So how do I join?

They will obviously be a space dot.

I'll just use dot join so that it will join together and it will convert that into a sentences.

So this exactly is converting.

All the words into sentences.

Right.

This is very much simple.

And we have actually done this.

Perfect.

So here what all things we have done again let me repeat I'm I'm iterating through each and every sentence.

And then I'm doing a word tokenize that basically means for every sentences I'm getting the list of

words.

And from that list of words I'm iterating, I'm seeing that whether it is present in the stopwords,

if it is not present, I'm doing the stemming.

After stemming, I'm again storing back in that same list, and then I'm converting all these words

into sentences I can say, converting all the list of words into sentences.

Perfect.

Now, once I execute it.

And now if I go and see my sentences here, you will be able to see now I three vision India right in

3000 year history.

Right.

So here h-i-s-t-o-r-y became re okay people people it became people.

World came invaded us invade it became capture land conquer mind from you can see all the special words

like, like I, I have.

Everything is gone.

See, see this I is there have is gone.

Right.

Though you will not be able to find out though anywhere.

Right.

So whatever stopwords were present over here, that all got removed.

And then only we performed the stemming.

Right now you may be saying, Krish, uh, the stemming does not look very good, right?

So for that, what you need to do, I've already taught you with respect to snowball stemmer.

So I will just import this.

Okay?

And it is very simple.

Simple.

I think you can do the same task again.

So snowball stemmer and then I will try to import this with respect to English.

And obviously after this you'll be able to get a good sentence.

Right.

So let me just remove this one.

So snowball stemmer I've already done it and I'm going to copy the same thing okay.

And here I'm just going to say apply snowball stemmer stemming.

Right.

And then instead of stemmer I will just write this word that is snowball stemmer.

That's it.

Yeah.

And now once I execute it, uh, let me go back again, back to the sentences, because that sentences

have got changed now.

So where is the sentences.

Let's see.

Okay.

Now this is the sentences I've got executed now.

Now I'm just going to execute this.

Now if I probably go and see my sentences here you can see that now it is good right now.

So uh, one more important thing that snowball has done.

See over here, I still have capital letters, right?

Like there may be some of the sentences which may be in small letter.

It also.

So that becomes a repeated word.

But since this is a capital letter it will be considered as a separate word right.

For the model to understand.

Right.

So what it does is that snowball.

One more advantage is that it is making sure that all the letter is becoming small.

Right.

So all the letter is becoming small.

And for some of the words it is not even giving a good result like poverty has become poverty.

But if you try to do this with the help of Lemmatization, you can also get a good word.

Now let's try it with the help of Lemmatization.

So I'm just going to, uh, do the same thing.

Okay?

I hope everybody is understood with respect to Snowball Stemmer.

Now what I'm going to do is that again, going to go back to my Lemmatization code.

So I'm just going to import this NLTK dot stem.

And it is very simple guys.

I think we are just repeating things so that you also practice in a better way.

Okay so here I've got the word net lemmatizer I'm going to initialize it.

Perfect.

This is done.

Now I'm going to go to go ahead and copy the same code right.

And I will just write it over here.

And instead of writing snowball I'm just going to copy this I'm going to paste it over here.

Perfect.

So I've done it.

But let me just go ahead and execute the sentence part again because I need to get the updated sentence.

So I think it is somewhere here.

Paragraph.

Okay.

And uh, here is the sentence okay.

Perfect.

Now, let me just go ahead and execute the same thing.

And now if you.

Okay.

I'm getting an error.

Has no stem.

Okay.

Sorry.

It should be lemmatize.

Lemmatize.

Okay, so lemmatize are not lemmatize.

Now you see, some time it took, right?

Because it is basically checking from the entire corpus.

Now if I probably go and see the sentences now, you have all amazing things with respect to words that

are coming up correctly and all the things are here, right.

So with respect to this, you are able to get some good thing.

Now one more thing you can do is that after this word you can also put the post tag.

Now if you put the post tag to V right now, you see what will be the output.

You'll get a better output I guess, because most of the words it will be basically considering as um,

you know, as an adverb or sorry as a verb.

So but anyhow, we will try to understand about post tag again, more more things.

Right.

So I three visions India in 3000 years history people come would world come invade us capture land.

So all the stop words has got deleted.

Now we are getting a very good one.

You know, uh, at least better than stemming.

Okay.

And the other one that is snowball stemming.

Right.

So this was the entire process with respect to text pre-processing.

And here we have discussed with stop words and how you should also go ahead and do the text pre-processing.

I hope everybody got that idea.

Now in Lemmatization also you can see that it is not lowering it.

So what you can actually do is that you can basically lower all the sentences, right.

So let's say if you write sentences of I is equal to sentences dot of I.

Dot two lower right.

So you can basically give two lower.

Let's see whether it will work or not.

Uh and uh let's see whether it will completely work or not.

I'm not sure whether dot two lower will work with respect to list, but I think it should work.

I'm just going to execute this again.

Go down okay and apply this Lemmatizer.

Okay.

Uh str object has no attribute to lower okay.

So it's okay.

Not a problem.

Not a problem.

What I'm actually going to do I'm just going to comment this.

And before writing here I'll just say word to lower.

Okay.

You have to definitely try different, different things, okay?

And it's all about Google.

You know, just Google it.

You'll be able to get it.

So again I'm going to execute this.

And now I think it'll execute I know it is.

I'm doing a lot of up and downs.

But just try to follow the lecture.

Uh string object has no attribute to lower y to underscore lower is there.

Um, to lower.

Um, okay, let me just see, uh, str to lower case.

Right.

Python.

Let me just see this.

It's okay if I don't have any other way to see it, but I think dot lower will definitely work.

Let's see.

Dot lower.

Okay.

Perfect.

It has worked.

Now.

Now, if I go and see the sentences, it is done.

Okay, so I don't have any any regrets to search in the Google.

You should also do the search in the Google.

So now here you can see all the small letters are there along with the lemmatization.

So this is the entire text pre-processing.

We can also apply some regular expression before this so that we can do the cleaning of the sentence.

So I'll remove this word.

And I think uh, this will also work if I probably just comment this out with two lower or just lower

okay.

Just check it out.

It is up to you.

So I'll just comment this so that you can try it out.

Okay.

But in short, uh, we have understood what Stopwords can actually do and how we can basically apply

things.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it from my side.

I think you are liking this entire series.

Uh, we will be learning more things as we go ahead.

And, uh, we have post tags and all.

We have entity name recognitions.

Also.

Many things are there which is going to come.

So yes, uh, keep on learning, keep on practicing.

Uh, I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to NLP.

And in this video we are going to discuss about something called as parts of speech tagging.

Now I hope you have understood in Lemmatization this parts of speech tagging, it plays a very important

role because if we are giving it as a verb or a noun, right?

Based on that, you know, we are able to get the root form of the specific word, right.

And we have seen lot of examples with respect to this.

In this video, we will try to understand that how many different types of parts of speech tagging is

there.

And with respect to that, we will also see a practical example.

Let's say that if I am actually getting a sentence like this, Taj Mahal is a beautiful monument.

How with the help of NLTK, we are able to understand that and you'll be seeing that the output of this,

let's say I'm just taking this particular example.

The output for this will be that Taj Mahal will be considered as a noun.

Beautiful may be considered as a adjective.

Monument can be considered as a verb, right?

I'm just giving as an example, but will definitely see this particular example.

And we'll also see some extensive example altogether.

Now, with respect to parts of speech, how many different types of things are there?

Right.

So here you have something called as CC coordinating conjunction CD cardinal digit d determiner x.

Uh existential there f w foreign word I n preposition jj adjective jj r adjective.

So that basically means suppose if I'm giving a sentence automatically, it will be able to categorize

in all this specific different different parts of speech automatically with the help of NLTK.

And similarly there are a lot of things over here.

You can see a personal, now personal pronoun like, uh, for the letters like hi, he she will be put

up as PRP, right?

It will be getting a tag called as PRP.

If you see over here some more example like RB adverb right.

Words like very silently will be put up over here rb r.

It is also above, but it will be like a comparative one right.

So example like better.

So you have rb's adverb like this.

You have lot.

Right.

So what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to take a very good example.

And one assignment you just have to do is that take this particular simple example and try to find out

and try to write down the comment in the comment section.

Okay.

Now over here, you will be able to see that I have this particular speech of doctor, uh, APJ Abdul

Kalam.

And obviously the same example I have shown you in the stop words example itself.

Right.

So I'm going to take this very simple okay.

And then let's consider that, uh, in this parts of speech tagging, I really wanted to perform uh,

stemming let's say.

But, uh, I don't want to perform any stemming because I want to see for each and every word.

Right.

What kind of POS speech tagging will be there.

So no need to import all this things.

Okay.

So I'm just going to, uh, remove all this things instead.

I'll just be focusing on importing NLTK.

So I'll right import NLTK.

And then here you can see that I'm just writing NLTK dot sent to underscore tokenize.

So that basically means I'm actually converting the paragraph into sentences.

So let me just execute this.

And once I get it here you'll be able to see all the sentences.

So in this example I'm trying to show you that how for each and every word we'll be able to find out

the POS tag.

Okay.

So the next thing is that now what I'm actually going to do is that apply the stopwords okay.

And no need to apply the Stopwords also because we don't want to remove anything.

So I'm just going to uncomment all these things and I'm going to say that we will find out the POS tag

okay.

Find out the POS tag.

Right.

So this is perfect.

Uh, till here we are going.

Good.

Right now, what I'm actually doing over here, uh, it is very much clear, very much easy to understand

that, uh, over here we are able to, uh, do that, like I'm doing.

I'm just simply putting a for loop over here with respect to all the sentences and this sentences here,

what I'm doing is that I'm just trying to convert this into words.

I'll be getting a list of words.

And now no need to do the stemming.

So I'll just remove the stemming.

Okay.

And uh, over here I'll just add this w word itself.

I'll be getting the word.

And I'm just saying that if the word is not in set stop words dot words of English.

So, uh, let's see that.

Okay?

I told you that I'll not apply stop words, but let's let us just remove the stop words, because some

of the stop words will not be playing an important role.

So in order to do that, uh, I'll just, uh, import all the libraries with respect to stop word.

And obviously over here, I had already written that.

But let me do control Z.

So here it is.

Stop words with respect to this.

And I will also remove this okay.

So two things.

And I will just import the stop words.

So I'm writing that from Anticorpos import stop words.

And now let's apply for this same thing.

Whatever we have done in the previous time uh the same part we are actually repeating it.

So here you can see that for uh, word for word in words if word not in this particular stop word with

respect to English, I'm going to take all the words.

And then I'm just going to comment down this code because I'm not going to join them.

I am backed into the sentences because I need to understand what POS tag each word will be getting,

so I will basically write print.

Okay, so here I'm just going to write a simple print statement.

And in this particular print statement before printing this also what I can do, I can write basically

this in the next line here I'll be using something called as NLTK dot post tag.

Okay, so here you will be able to see post tag.

I can also apply it for words and I can also apply it for sentences.

Right now I'm just going to apply this for the words itself.

So this is my entire thing.

And uh here I'll just create a uh pos underscore tag variable.

So this will basically indicate that everything is getting stored over here.

And with respect to that I'm just going to print this.

Now let me revise it again.

What all things we did I'm iterating through each and every sentence.

And then I'm converting this particular sentence into words.

And for each words I'm applying stop words.

Initially I thought that I'll not apply, but let's apply the stop words because, see, at the end

of the day they are so small.

Small words like isn't the he she.

I don't want this particular words right.

So I'll, I'll remove the stop words and I will take all the list of words over here.

I did not apply stemming because I really need to find out whatever words are present over here.

It needs to be, uh, like this.

Analytic will be able to find out all the different, different types of, uh, parts of speech tagging

with respect to that.

And then I just apply this particular simple code that is NLTK dot post underscore tag of words.

And then finally I'm printing it.

So here you can see I'll just execute it I'm getting some error.

I'm not going to uh, make sure that nothing I'm not going to like if there is an error, I'm not going

to edit the video.

So here it says NLTK dot download average perceptron trigger tagger.

So I definitely require this particular tagger to apply post tag.

So what I will do is that I'll just go and uh copy and paste this.

You also have to do this because you will also face this particular error.

Now here you can see that it has been downloaded.

Now if I probably go ahead and run it now here you'll be seeing for the first sentence I is basically

a PRP.

PRP basically means what?

So if you probably go over here and see personal pronoun and I have given the examples like Ihesc,

right.

Similarly you'll be able to see that other words like three three CD vision Gnns uh, India NLP.

Let's go ahead and see what is NP, because India has been categorized with NP, so NP is nothing but

proper noun singular.

It's like a name place.

It can be monuments, it can be different, different things like NP, S is a proper noun, plural.

Americans, Indians like that.

Right?

So all those things are there.

And how easily it is being able to simply, you know, just show the post tags, right?

With the help of NLTK.

This is an amazing thing.

And here, with respect to all the sentences, you will be able to see this okay?

And that is how powerful NLTK is.

Uh, let me just show you whatever assignment that I had actually given you.

Right.

So this was the sentence over here.

I'm just going to copy this, and I'm just going to take this entirely, okay.

And let's see whether we'll be able to do it.

So I'm just going to use NLTK dot post accents.

Now let's see with respect to sense.

Also if you are able to do this or not.

So I'm just going to put this Taj Mahal is a beautiful monument and I'm going to execute this.

Now here you can see T okay.

Now in this particular case what has happened each and every word has been considered over here.

Right.

This should not basically happen.

So what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to basically use post tag.

Let's see what is the output with respect to this.

So here also the same thing is coming.

So the simple way in this particular scenario is that again I'll put a for loop for I in okay I'll say

sentence or I in in this entire quotes I will just put this.

I'll go through each and every word over here okay.

And I can write dot split with respect to this, because if I'm just using this dot split, this is

my string, okay.

And if I probably use dot split you'll be able to see that what I'm getting.

Taj Mahal is a beautiful monument right.

So for I in this now and here you can see that I'm iterating through each and every things, right?

Each and every word.

So I'm just going to print NLTK dot pos tag.

And I am actually going to use this.

So you can here you can uh just go ahead and write this specific I or instead of writing this I, I'll

just write words okay.

For word in this and I'll take a dot post tag.

I'm just going to use this specific word now here, uh, still uh, there is an issue because I am iterating

through each and every thing.

So if I probably get this entire thing, uh, with respect to the list, you'll be able to see.

Okay, uh, let's see, let's see, let's see.

There's something again.

I'm not going to delete it.

I'm just going to see what is the word over here.

So I'm getting this okay.

And if I take this NLTK dot pos tag.

With respect to this specific word.

Uh, okay.

This is the problem.

Let's see.

What did I do over here?

Uh, I need to provide a list of words.

Okay?

And then I'll be applying this.

Okay.

This is the problem.

Okay?

Now, uh, all you have to do is that I don't have to give word by word.

If it is giving word by word here, you will be able to see for every single character it is giving

this right.

I really need to provide the list of words.

So if I probably just copy this part and put it over here and remove all these things.

Now what I have actually done after this error, see, I'm not editing this particular video with respect

to this error, because you really need to see all these errors.

In short, when I give like this, I'll be getting a list of words.

So if I execute this here now you can see that Taj.

It is showing an NP Mahal and NP is is VBS a PT beautiful JJ monument.

Now see what did I do over here?

POS tag.

Basically, uh, whatever parameter we give, we should be giving in the form of list of words.

And if you are able to do that, we will be getting the same answer.

Right.

So guys, I hope you are able to understand parts of speech tagging.

I definitely got some errors, but I really wanted to show you all the errors that we are getting and

based on that, how you can solve this, right?

That is the main purpose.

So the error part, I'm not going to edit it, I'm going to keep it like that.

So please make sure that you practice.

And yes, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.


Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

And in this video we are going to discuss about name entity recognition.

This is an amazing topic.

So let me open a file over here.

So here you can see that let's say that we have a lot of sentences right.

Like one example of this particular sentence is over here.

The Eiffel Tower was built from 1887 to 1889 by French engineer Gustave Eiffel, uh, whose company

specialized in building metal frameworks and structures.

Right now, this is a sentence.

Now, from this particular sentence, we know that what is parts of speech tagging, right.

Which is noun, pronoun and all.

But along with that, with the help of NLTK, we will also be able to get something called as name entity

tags right now.

What are some of the examples of name entity tags.

So here you can see one of the tag is something called as person.

The second tag can be location or place.

Third tag can be date time right.

And here also I have given some examples.

So if I probably say Eiffel Tower it may be coming as a place.

It can come as a location.

Right over here you can see that okay Gustave Eiffel.

This will basically be getting tagged as a name itself right here.

Suppose if this numbers are actually there, it can be something else, right?

Suppose if you are giving some money value like $1 million.

So let's say this $1 million is present somewhere here.

Right.

And uh, you know, that will be basically tagged as something called as money.

Right.

So it will be given some kind of name entity tags.

Right.

So let us see some examples and let us see that how this name entity recognition will be given with

the help of NLTK library.

To begin with.

What I'm actually going to do, I'm going to take this particular sentence.

I'm going to just execute it over here okay.

And again we'll be going like, uh, how we did in the past videos itself.

So let me do one thing over here.

Let me create some more cells okay.

Now the first word, first thing I will just go ahead and import NLTK.

And as you know that uh, with respect to NLTK also I can use something called as a word tokenize.

Word word tokenize.

Word underscore tokenize.

And here I'm just going to give all my the complete sentence itself.

So here uh let's go ahead and give the sentence over here.

And once I execute it here you'll be able to see that the Eiffel Tower was everything is coming over

here.

So this is my entire words, the list of words.

Right.

So this is my entire list of words now.

Perfect.

Now see this usually, uh, for doing the parts of speech tagging.

What we do, what do we do?

We basically write nltk, dot pos, underscore tag.

And I basically give this entire words to this.

And based on this, every, each and every word will be assigned to some tags.

Okay.

So let me just write this as, uh, as my tagged uh, elements or tag something.

I'm just giving a variable name which is like tagged elements.

And this will get stored over here okay.

Now see this if I really want to provide some, uh, named entity recognition, all I have to do is

that use this NLTK dot named entity.

So there is something called as nee.

Okay.

So let me just show you any, uh any chunk okay.

So any chunk is a function over here.

And if I probably see the definition of this particular thing, uh, function you'll be seeing use NLTK

currently recommended name entity Chunker to chunk the given list to a given list of tag tokens.

Okay, and inside this I will just pass my all my tag elements.

Okay, so this will be my tag elements.

I'm just going to give this.

Probably we may get an error.

The reason is there because we need to download this one right.

So here you can see that NLTK dot download max net any chunker.

Because here we are specifically using some chunker techniques to basically get the named entity.

And for that we really need to download it.

And that is what is the first requirement.

So here you can see that I'm downloading it.

And once this downloaded gets uh, once this entirely this uh, max max ent any chunker gets downloaded.

We are good to run this specific code, so this may take some amount of time because this may also be

a huge, uh, it can be a huge library inside it which needs to be downloaded.

So now I will just go ahead and execute it.

Still I'm getting some error.

It also says that okay you need to download NLTK dot download words.

Perfect.

So what I'm actually going to do go and make one more cell.

And please don't worry whenever you get some errors.

I've seen some people who who gets worried.

First of all just go ahead and see the error.

What exactly it is.

It is very much simple and you just need to execute it.

So guys now once this NLTK or download of words gets downloaded, now all I have to do is that over

here you will be seeing that NLTK dot any underscore chunk.

I have to give the tag elements and then I just need to write dot draw.

Once I execute this here you'll be able to see this.

What an amazing graph I am able to get.

Now see this.

Everybody observe this.

I don't know whether you are able to see this properly or not, but just clearly if you will be able

to see it.

It has given most of the information very much clearly.

So here it is very much clear that you, uh, this entire sentence right.

The organization is, uh, recognized for Eiffel and Tower, right?

Which is a noun right over here you can see this word, uh, was is a BBD built.

It is over here.

1887 is something like CD.

And here you can see GPE right French JJ right.

It is being able to determine as JJ here you can see person information is being able to get captured

which is like Gustav NP.

So here you can clearly see all these information very nicely.

Right.

So which whichever entity is been able to get recognized here you will be able to find that.

So person is their GPE is their and organization is their what.

That is what we will be able to find out.

This s is the entire sentence over here.

But with this graph, you will be able to understand that you are able to get the entire information.

So like this.

If you probably go and see that what all uh, other entities you can find person, place, location,

date, time, money and all.

So I hope you were able to understand about named entity recognition and how you will be able to see

this, and how you'll be able to see the diagrams.

So yes, this was it with respect to this particular video, but understand that NLTK provides this

amazing feature.

You should definitely use it when it where it is required, right?

So this was it from my side for this particular video.

I'll see you all in the next video.

Thank.

Hello guys.

So we're going to continue our discussion with respect to NLP.

In our previous videos we have discussed many topics till now.

You know like stemming Lemmatization we have seen Stopwords.

We have also done with the help of NLTK and Python.

Now let us just go ahead and revise once more.

Okay, I'm not revising each and every topic, but if you really want to solve a specific problem statement.

So let's consider that over here we have a problem statement called as sentiment analysis.

Now in order to solve the sentiment analysis you know what all things basically we do and how this topics

we have learnt till now, where does it fit in the life cycle of an NLP project?

Now let's say that this is my text and this is my output okay.

And when I write d1, d2, d3, d4 these are basically documents one, document two.

Or it can also be called a sentence one sentence to sentence three.

Sentence four.

If I combine all these particular sentences, it becomes something called as corpus, right?

And uh, if I probably say corpus, another meaning can be paragraph also right.

And over here we will be also able to see different different words.

We'll also be able to see unique number of words which is called as vocabulary perfect.

Now initially whenever you are given a problem statement that is with respect to NLP, you definitely

will be having a data set.

So let me just create a small uh, block diagram over here.

So let's say this is the problem statement I really want to solve that is called as sentiment analysis

just for an example.

So initially what I will be having I'll be having a specific data set.

Now with respect to this particular data set.

The first step that I will definitely do is something called as text pre-processing.

Right.

So over here you'll be able to see something called as text pre-processing.

So let's say this is my text pre-processing okay.

And I would like to give this as part one, because here specifically, if I talk with respect to this

particular text pre-processing techniques, you usually write what all things we have learnt till now.

So first topic, uh, is nothing but something called as tokenization.

Right.

And tokenization is a process where we convert a paragraph into sentences or a sentences into words

and many more things.

The second simple thing that we basically do is something called as lowering the use case, right?

Lowering the lowering the case of the words right.

Now when I say case of the words, that basically means or I can just say that, right?

I'm just lowering all the words itself.

Right.

So here let me just write this one.

I can just write something called as lowercase of the words.

Okay.

Why we require this?

Because understand lowercase the words.

Let's say I have a capital though, and small though, right?

Both the words are actually same, right though can be present in any other sentences.

And we really need we really need to treat this as a single word itself.

Right.

So it is important after we perform tokenization, we really need to lower all the specific words.

Okay.

So that is the reason what we do now with respect to text pre-processing part one, uh, we usually

do this two simple step.

And along with that we can also apply our third thing.

It is with respect to regular expression.

And definitely I will try to show you, uh, why regular expression can be super important in this particular

case.

Now over here you'll be able to see regular expression can be, you know, removing the special characters.

It can be removing, uh, you know, any, any characters from that particular word or the entire sentence

based on some regular expression.

Right.

So that is what we basically do.

And again, this is a cleaning process when we say text pre-processing we basically say cleaning process.

The next step again, uh, when we further go and probably we have discussed about all these things,

only regular expression is left, which I will probably discuss, uh, as we go ahead.

Okay.

Now, in the second step, what I'm actually going to do, I'm basically going to write something called

as Text Pre-processing Part two.

Write text pre-processing.

And this is part two.

And what all things we have learnt here till now.

So some of the topics like stemming write lemmatization.

Lemmatization and I hope.

What is the advantage of stemming lemmatization we have already discussed.

Right.

And third one, uh, we basically have something called as Stopwords, which is perfectly going on right

now.

All these things are absolutely fine, right?

We have we are doing all this things stemming, lemmatization and all here.

Also, we are focusing on cleaning the text and our raw text once it becomes very much clean, we are

definitely, uh, the next step will basically be to take this particular test text and try to convert

this into a vectors.

You know, vectors is a numerical representation of a specific text.

It can be a sentence, it can be words, right?

We try to represent each and every word with some kind of vectors, you know, which will give some

meaningful representation of that specific word, so that we will be able to apply any kind of machine

learning algorithm like classification, you know, to solve any kind of use cases like sentiment analysis.

So we have actually covered till here the next step what will happen is that.

So here I'm just going to write out all the steps.

So this is my step one.

Uh step two right.

Step three.

Now when I talk about step four now this is super important.

Right.

And uh, I'll just give it as another color.

So this will basically be my step four.

After completing this step, you know, I will take this entire text, you know, and probably we will

try to convert this text into vectors.

So what we are going to do, we're going to convert this text into something called as vectors.

Vectors is nothing but a numerical representation of the specific text.

What are the techniques that is used that is super important.

And you really need to understand this techniques because as we go ahead right later, later on when

you start learning deep learning, also the concepts like word embedding, word two vec and all right,

and all these techniques that is basically used.

And even the advanced techniques like Transformer and Bert, they also use this technique of converting

the text into vectors.

And they have some amazing way.

One way is word embeddings, right?

That is, they have an amazing way to convert this text into vectors, which will provide meaningful

semantic information to the text.

Right?

So just understand for right now, if you're not understanding what is text to vectors, it is just

like I have some kind of text.

Let's say I have this food is good.

This entire text will be represented by a simple numerical format okay.

Numerical data in short.

Now over here we are going to learn various different techniques.

Now first thing is that we are going to see what is called as one hot encoded okay one hot encode.

And then probably if you know machine learning you will definitely be able to know it.

And again one hot encoded is not a very efficient technique with respect to this kind of data.

And uh, right now nobody is using one hot encoding techniques specifically for text data.

Yes, for machine learning problem statements there to convert a categorical features, uh, into numerical

format.

We basically use one hot encoded but not in text.

But we'll try to understand the theoretical part of this.

And after this we will be going with something called as bag of words.

Okay.

Super important technique which we also say it as b o w.

Right.

Very very super important technique with respect to this uh, third technique, uh, that we are specifically

going to see.

Uh, over here is something called as tf IDF, tf IDF.

Okay, so tf IDF is also a very good technique, uh, to convert the text into vectors.

Uh, and as we go ahead and learn different, different things, right, there will be some disadvantage

in that specific technique.

So we are using the next technique.

The fourth one that we are probably going to see is something called as word two vec.

Now this word two vec is also an amazing technique.

Uh, there's a concept in deep learning which is called as word embedding.

Word two vec is basically used.

You can also train your own word two vec.

You can also train a custom word two vec, or you can also use the same weights to train the newer data.

I know if it is not making sense, don't worry, I will explain each and everything as we go ahead.

Now the fifth part, uh, that we are going to basically see is something called as average word two

vec.

Again, a super important topic altogether.

And I will also try to see all these things.

Now why I'm writing all this things, because these are all the techniques that we are going to see,

uh, from the next video itself.

First we'll go with one hot encoded.

We'll understand the advantage and disadvantage.

Then we'll go and see bag of words.

We'll see that how bag of words work.

And then we'll see the practical implementation.

Like how we can do it with the help of NLTK.

Right now after you do this, after we get the vector representation of a text and numerical information

about that specific text or numerical representation of the text, we take that numerical representation.

Let's say that this this entire sentence.

Right.

I'll give you an example how it will get converted.

Let's say, um, I'm just writing it as 1011.

Right.

Something.

Okay.

Some some numerical representation okay.

So this will be my numerical representation for this particular document.

That is D one.

Uh how I'm getting this.

Don't worry.

I've just put some as an example.

I will explain you as we go ahead with the video with respect to this numerical representation.

This will be my output.

So what we can do is that we can take this vectors and we can send it to the next stage wherein I will

just write it out as fifth.

And this will basically be.

My model trained a model getting trained.

Okay.

And over here, you'll be able to see that once I give convert my text into vectors.

Here we will train with machine learning or DL algorithms.

Okay.

But right now since we are discussing NLP with machine learning I'm just going to write machine learning

algorithms.

Okay.

We are going to train this uh with ML algorithms okay.

And finally we'll be able to do the prediction, find out the accuracy.

So this is what step by step we are basically going to do it.

But you really need to understand all these techniques uh, all these techniques right.

In machine learning at least one hot encoded and all.

And uh, later on we are also going to see a library which is called as Gensim library, which will

actually help you to do, uh, word two vec because it, it is a huge model.

Okay.

Go to vec.

Uh, it already has many representation of the words like it can provide a numerical representation

of various words, uh, and again internally word two vec an average word two vec also uses deep learning

techniques.

Uh, again we will discuss about it.

The overall brief idea.

I'll try to give it to you.

And then what we'll do is that we'll solve some, uh, use cases wherein we'll take this particular

data and again, we'll follow this entire step.

And finally we'll train our machine learning algorithm.

Right.

So this is what we are going to do as we go ahead.

Uh, so I hope, uh, you're able to understand what is the flow and how we are going to solve this

particular problem.

The example of the data set is over here.

We'll try to convert this into a format and then train with the machine learning algorithms.

So yes.

Uh, I will see you all in the next video.

I hope you are able to understand things.

I hope you are able to understand each and every thing.

What I'm actually writing.

Uh, yes.

This was it.

Uh, I'll see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue in the discussion with respect to NLP.

Already we have already seen that.

Now what is our next step?

You know, after text pre-processing where we have specifically performed stemming Lemmatization Stopwords.

And we have cleaned the data.

Right.

Now the main thing is that we really need to convert the text into vectors.

And there are multiple ways.

The first way that we are going to discuss about is something called as one hot encoding.

Okay.

Now we'll try to understand how how with the help of one hot encoding, we are converting the words

into a vectors itself.

So let's take this specific example.

So here I have a text and a specific output right.

Our main aim is that first of all we need to take this particular text.

And we need to convert this into vectors.

Okay.

Now with respect to this obviously, uh, I'm also not going to again lower all the sentences or words,

but let me focus on more on like how you can basically implement this one hot encoding and what is the

theoretical intuition behind it and how the vectors are actually created.

So uh, to begin with over here, let's say that this is my text, the document one is the food is good,

the food is bad.

Pizza is amazing.

Okay.

So this is basically XYZ.

Amazing.

Okay.

Now how do you find out how many unique vocabulary is there?

Because see, the unique vocabulary will play a very important role okay.

While creating your vectors okay.

So to begin with what I'm actually going to do is that we just need to find out how many unique words

are there.

So let me go ahead and write it down.

And obviously you know that if I combine all these three documents it becomes a paragraph or corpus.

So let me just go ahead and let me just write down all the unique, unique documents.

So there is one unique, uh, sorry, not document vocabulary.

The is there food is there right.

Is is there right and good is there.

So over here you can see good is also there.

Then from the second sentence you can see the food is getting repeated.

So I'm just going to write bad okay.

And if I go probably to this third sentence or the documents here you will be able to see pizza is there

which is a unique word or unique vocabulary is is again getting repeated.

And finally we have something called as amazing.

So all these words that are probably present over here, this are my unique vocabulary.

Right.

Vocabulary.

So these are just nothing but the unique words, unique words that are available in this entire paragraph

or sentence or in this particular data set.

Now based on this unique words one hot encoding means what?

Okay, now let's say if I probably consider this particular document 1D1 okay.

So let's say this is my D one.

Now what does d one do.

Is that like if you are probably applying one hot encoding, we will convert all this specific words

into this vector representation.

That basically means let's say if I'm considering the word then the vector representation for the word

will be 1000000.

Why?

Because one is present over there.

That basically means that is present in this specific word.

So this is basically becoming one.

If I consider for the next word that is food, then how it how will be able to represent it.

It will be 0100000.

Right.

So here clearly you will be able to see wherever those specific word is, it will be represented by

a vector which will be of a dimension v.

Okay.

Now what is this v v is nothing but the words that are present over here.

So here you will be able to see one word, two word, three word for word, five word, six word, seven

word.

So the unique vocabulary I have seven.

So it is going to be represented by the seven vectors where for those specific word it will be represented

as one and remaining all will be represented as zero.

Right.

So now if I probably consider how can I represent this d one.

That is, the food is good with respect to this particular vectors okay.

So now understand that in this particular food uh there are four words right.

1234.

So over here with respect to D one the first word will have a representation of 10000.

So how many zeros are there.

123456.

Right.

123456.

Right.

So this will be my first word okay then coming to the second word.

Now the second word over here is food right.

So here you will be able to see 0100000.

Right.

So this will be my second word.

Now if I come to my third word it is basically is right.

So is is basically represented by 0010000.

So this is my third word.

And coming to the fourth word which is good.

So here it will become 0001000.

Right.

So this.

Is my sentence.

One one hot chord.

One hot chord representation with respect to this particular text.

So this text, if I apply one hot encoding I'm going to get this kind of representation.

So guys now if I talk about the shape of this D one sentence which has four words right.

So here you can see the first word representation is this one.

The second word representation is this one vector representation.

Third word vector representation is this one.

And fourth word vector representation is this one.

So if I probably see the shape right it is basically four cross seven four words 1234 okay.

And seven seven uh vocabulary size right 1234567 okay.

Now what we are going to do, we are also going to do the same thing for D two okay.

So let's go ahead and try with respect to D2I would suggest just pause the video, try it by yourself

and then probably continue the video.

Anyhow I'll be showing you the entire uh representation again.

Okay.

So over here you'll be able to see that, which is my first word.

Again, the in D2I have the food is bad right.

So again this two are same.

This three words are same.

So I'm going to basically write the same representation.

It will be one 0 or 1 000I think there are six zeros 123456 zeros okay.

So this will be my first word.

Coming to the second word.

This is this one okay I'm just going to write this over here okay.

So this is my second word.

So here I'm going to write 010000I hope the size is 71234567.

Perfect.

So uh coming to the third word now here you'll be able to see 0010000.

Okay.

Now here you can see this food is the food is it is a similar word like D one only.

So the first three is just a replica coming to the last word right now if I say last word over here

you can see good.

Over here you can see bad.

Now whenever you have bad this particular word will become one.

Right?

So you'll be having 000000000 and then 100.

So I'll just go ahead and write 000 again 0100.

Perfect.

So this is how the D two is basically represented.

And again over here you'll be able to see the shape will be somewhere around four cross seven.

Okay.

Now uh yes.

Uh this was the technique simple technique of one hot encoding.

Like how we converted a text into a vectors.

Uh, over here you can see each and every word is basically represented by a one hot encoded based on

the vocabulary size, whatever the vocabulary size is basically present.

So here you can have you can see that I have a vocabulary size of seven.

So based on that one hot representation is given for each and every word.

Okay.

Now uh, going forward in the next video we are going to discuss about all the advantages and disadvantages

of this.

And again one hot encoding is not getting used for this NLP use cases.

We have techniques like Bag of Word and TF-IDF.

We'll also understand what are the advantages and disadvantages.

Why should we not use this.

And then we'll be trying to understand the bag of words and TF-IDF.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.


Transcript
Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to one hot encoding and NLP.

And I hope you have understood that how we can convert words into vectors and probably the entire process.

I have actually explained to you over here in this video, we are going to talk about the advantages

and disadvantages of using one hot encoding.

So let me go ahead and let me write it down.

So here are the advantages okay.

And here are the disadvantages.

Okay.

Now, first of all, the basic advantage is that it is very easy to implement with Python programming

language, right?

Easy to implement with Python.

Now why I'm saying you that because in sklearn we have a specific library where we can easily implement

this and it is basically called as one hot encoder.

Okay.

And in pandas, if you are familiar with pandas library we have something called as PD dot get underscore

dummies.

Right.

So this function will basically help you to create this entire one hot encoding based on the words right.

And again the second advantage and obviously uh, we'll see this kind of examples as we go ahead.

But again I'm not going to implement specifically separately as a video in one hot encoding because

we don't mostly use this NLP in NLP technique.

And I'll tell you why.

Because there are a lot of disadvantages also.

Now let's go ahead and talk about the disadvantage.

The first disadvantage over here.

You see that over here.

At the end of the day if I probably consider right the food is good right at the end of the day I'm

getting 1000.

And for the next one I'm getting this 010 zeros.

And there are so many number of zeros and ones in, in arithmetic, in, in linear algebra we basically

say this as sparse matrix.

Okay.

So this basically creates a sparse matrix right.

Now what is sparse matrix exactly.

To talk about.

Sparse matrix is that in an array in a matrix you have lot of ones and zeros okay.

And what is the problem with respect to sparse matrix?

I can also say this as we can also convert this into an array also.

So we can also say this as sparse arrays.

But understand what is the disadvantage with respect to sparse matrix.

Whenever we apply any machine learning algorithm this specific machine learning algorithm, you know,

after we convert the text into vectors, right?

In most of the machine learning algorithms, this leads to something called as overfitting.

Right now, what exactly is overfitting?

Overfitting is a process wherein you get a very good accuracy with the training data, but with respect

to any new data, it will not be able to give you a very good accuracy.

So this sparse matrix usually leads to something called as overfitting.

Right.

So this is the one of the major disadvantage.

Now let me talk about the next disadvantage over here okay.

Now over here let's say that I have this words like the food is good.

The pizza is the sorry the food is good.

The food is bad.

Pizza is amazing right now.

See one thing over here, right in any machine learning algorithm whenever you give the data.

Right.

And in this case also if I probably say this vocabulary.

Right.

These are all my features.

The food is good.

Bad pizza.

Amazing.

Right now over here you can see that most of the time my inputs for every word that is getting converted

into a vector the size is seven, right?

1234567 right?

And based on the number of words here, you will be seeing that I am having four words.

So I'm getting four cross seven here.

Also I am having four words which I'm actually getting four cross seven.

But if I consider with respect to the third statement or third sentence, right.

So if I probably consider D three, right.

And if I start creating a one hot encoded format for this, so what it will be.

See pizza is there.

Right.

So pizza where it is one at this particular instance.

So I will probably create something like this 0000010.

Right.

So this is pizza right.

Is again we have is over here is is nothing.

But this will be one and remaining all will be zero.

So I'll just write 0010000.

Right.

And the third statement is amazing which will be the last one as far as I remember from the vocabulary.

So this is how my D3 looks right in one hot encoded format.

But one one thing you really need to understand over here the size is three cross seven.

Right now in machine learning you need to understand one thing.

Whenever we perform NLP or let's say any machine learning use case, the number of features should be

fixed with respect to the length.

But here you can see this is four cross seven.

This is four cross seven.

This is three cross seven.

So I cannot train I cannot train my this particular data for a machine learning algorithm.

Because over here we still don't have a fixed text size.

Right.

So this is one of the major major disadvantage unless and until and with the help of one hot encoding,

we are not getting a fixed text size right over here I have got four cross seven four cross seven.

If this was also four cross seven, I could have trained it right.

So over here I'll say that for ML algorithm.

We need.

We need fixed size.

We need fixed size input.

Right.

And right now it is not there.

So this is again a major disadvantage right.

We'll be seeing in the upcoming lectures how with the help of Bag of words tf IDF will be getting a

fixed size of words.

Okay.

Now the third one that you will be seeing.

Most of the times we are finding zeros and ones, right?

Zeros and ones in zeros and ones most of the times.

If if a specific word is there, that will become one and remaining all will be zero.

But if I talk about the semantic meaning between these two words like dough and food, right, we are

not able to exactly calculate like how far, how equal it is or how similar that specific word is.

And this process is basically called as semantic.

So here I will say that no semantic meaning is getting captured.

No semantic meaning is getting captured.

Now let me talk about this in a very good example.

Okay.

Let's say I have something like this food pizza burger.

Okay.

Now you know that let's say that in my vocabulary I have three words.

So for the food representation I will basically write it as 100 for pizza.

Let's say I'm going to write it as 010.

And for burger I'm just going to write it as 001.

Now understand these are my vectors.

And right now, since there are three features, I'm basically having three vectors.

Now, if you have probably heard of something called as cosine similarity, or if you really want to

find out the distance between this vector to this vector and then this vector to this vector, if I

probably consider this, let's say I'm just going to draw a three dimension okay.

Let's say this is being determined by something like burger.

And this is being determined by something like food.

And this is being determined by something like pizza.

Now if I talk about all these things right, like let's say in the case of food it is 100.

So in this axis I will probably be getting one.

So so this will be represented by one comma zero comma 0 in 3 dimension.

And if I talk about pizza 010.

So this will be my another point.

Let's say I'm just going to denote this by another point zero comma one comma zero.

And let's let's talk about the third point over here.

The third point will be somewhere here burger.

It will be in the same distance.

So this will be zero comma zero comma one.

Now if I probably calculate the distance between this, all these things it will almost be equal.

Right.

So it is not being able to tell the exact difference between food pizza and burger.

It is obviously considering that okay, all these words are in equal distance.

So we cannot understand that how this particular word is different from this.

Right.

This is super important to understand.

So in short, what I am actually trying to say over here is that no semantic meaning is basically getting

captured.

That basically means in this particular sentence I'm not able to understand which is the most important

word, how this word is related to this word, or how this word is much more similar to this word.

So that information is not getting captured, because at the end of the day, I'm getting ones and zeros.

Okay.

So this was the uh, third major disadvantage.

Now talking about the fourth disadvantage.

And this is also very super important.

And this particular concept is something called as out of vocabulary.

Out of vocabulary.

And what does this basically mean of.

Okay.

Now what what is this all about?

Let's say that right now I have this many vocabularies of word.

Let's say for the after I train my model now, I want to test it for my new data set.

So for testing on my new data set this will be my test data.

Let's say I will say burger is bad and I need to predict this.

So this is my test data and I need to predict this.

Now you know that over here with respect to this particular sentences okay.

Burger is nowhere present in this particular, uh, vocabulary.

So what will be the problem?

We will not find out a way.

We will not have any way to represent this word burger in the form of vectors.

Right.

Will not be able to form a vectors over here because anyhow, we don't have a vocabulary word.

So what will happen in this particular case.

And obviously we will not be able to perform this one hot encoding because in our vocabulary I just

have this many number of words.

So this will not work when a new word is actually coming wherein it is not present in the vocabulary

with respect to the test data.

And obviously this is again a major disadvantage.

Right.

So this technique is basically called as out of vocabulary.

So this was in short about the advantages and disadvantages of this.

Understand sparse matrix basically means many ones and zeros.

It leads to overfitting with respect to various machine learning algorithm.

Then for any machine learning algorithm I definitely require a fixed size input.

Right now we are not able to get it.

That basically means all my sentences should be of fixed size.

It will not work.

No semantic meaning.

Sorry, meaning is getting captured.

I've already told you because if you try to calculate the distance, all these words are equidistance.

It is not saying that whether pizza is very much similar to food or burger, how much similar it is

to food, right?

That that similarity is not there and based on that semantic meaning is not getting captured because

here either we are getting ones and zeros, so we are not able to provide right over here you can see

that much more maximum information, which is the most most important word.

That information is also not getting captured.

So this was in short about the advantage and disadvantage.

I hope, uh, you have understood this.

And again, the next, uh, technique with respect to converting word to vectors is something called

as bag of words.

We'll try to see that how it is fixing some of the disadvantage from here.

And uh, yes, one more, one more major disadvantage.

I'll see you that.

Let's say that if your right now I just have three sentences.

Let's say I have just seven vocabulary.

Let's say tomorrow I will be having 50 k unique vocabulary size vocabulary size.

Now what will happen in this particular case.

Right.

I'll be getting so many number of ones and zeros.

So in short again this is actually leading it to sparse matrix.

But in a real world scenario I'll just not be having three sentences right.

I'll be having bigger sentences and I'll also be having many sentences as such.

So this is also one of the thing in any interview, if they ask you, you probably need to talk about

or explain like this with respect to advantage and disadvantage.

So I hope you have understood this.

I will see you all in the next video.

And uh, in the next video I'm going to discuss about Bag of Words.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

We are going to continue the discussion with respect to NLP.

In our previous video, we have already seen that we have discussed how one hot encoding works, right?

And if I probably talk with respect to different types of ways how we can convert a text into a vectors,

we had completed already one hot encoding.

Now we are in the second that is bag of words.

Now let's go ahead and understand how bag of words actually work.

And this is super important because this is the technique which you can do simple tasks like sentiment

classifications or whether, uh, basically, in short, a text classification kind of task easily you

will be able to solve, okay, uh, some of the applications famous application like whether a mail

is a spam or a ham, everything will be able to solve it.

Now let's say that I have a data set okay.

And in this particular data set, uh, I'm just saying that this is a positive or negative statements.

Now in this particular data set I have three sentences.

Let's say he is a good boy.

She is a good girl.

Boy and girl are good okay.

And all these are like positive statements.

So the output of all this are ones right?

In supervised machine learning we really need to know the output also.

Now let me go step by step and show you that how bag of words are implemented.

So this is basically the step one right I have the data set.

Now let's go to the step two.

Now what happens in the step two is that once I go over here right, there's multiple steps that uh,

actually occur.

And initially we should also go with respect to this.

The first thing is that if I probably consider two things you are going to basically happen.

First of all, we will lower all the words and usually all the steps we will even be doing for all the

other techniques also.

First, we will lower all the words and then we will probably apply stop words.

Right?

And this also have already shown you.

Now when I lower all the words, let's say my sentence one right, my sentence one now becomes I'm going

to take only this text data.

I don't have to worry about the output because later on, once we convert this text into vectors, we

can apply it to the machine learning algorithm.

So in the sentence one here, you can see as soon as I lower the words what will happen?

This all will become smaller.

Now why I'm doing this?

Because there may be some repeated words.

Now in this particular case, the capital, uh, with capital B you have boy here, small B, you have

a boy.

So both these words are same, but since it is in uppercase this will be treated as a separate word.

So we really need to lower all lowercase all the words.

So I'm just going to write lowercase all the words now in sentence one after lowering casing.

So what will happen is that this all will become smaller letters.

Then once we apply Stopwords.

Now what happens in Stopwords?

This is all words like he she is a you know it will get deleted, right?

Because we don't require this particular word for any kind of task like sentiment analysis.

Important words like good boy, good girl is basically required.

So this all things will go like and R will also go.

Now what will happen with respect to this?

The sentence one words will become only like this.

Good boy.

Okay, I'm showing you step by step, uh, with the help of Python.

When we do with the help of libraries, when we do, it is very much simple.

We don't have to worry that much about it.

Okay.

Uh, we just have to use one library.

So sentence two.

What it will become once it is stopwords will get removed.

It will become good girl.

Right.

And similarly with sentence three, I will be having this specific words that is boy girl.

Good.

Right.

So all these things are there.

I have sentence one, sentence two, sentence three.

Perfect.

Uh, now what we do is that we go ahead and calculate the vocabulary.

Now, how many words are there in this vocabulary?

We have good boy, girl, boy and girl.

And again it is getting repeated.

So if I probably consider how many unique words are there in the vocabulary.

So I will be able to write it over.

The first word is nothing but good.

So I'll go ahead and write good.

Good is my first word.

And one more thing that I will probably write that what is the frequency of this specific word?

Like how many times these words are there in different different sentences.

And obviously you can see one, two, three, three are there.

So I'm going to keep the count as three.

Then we have something called as boy over here you will be able to see how many times boy are there.

So in sentence three also boy is there in sentence one also boy is there.

So I'm just going to make the count to two and coming to the next one which is called as girl.

So again girl word is also there in this vocabulary.

And again girl also you will be able to see two times it is there right now.

First of all, you need to see that in this frequency with respect to different different vocabulary

words.

Is this in ascending order and obviously, uh, sorry, is this in descending order.

So maximum number of frequency will be put up in the first word right.

Then boy is present two times and girl is present two times.

So this can be moved up and down.

But just understand what I've done is that based on this descending order I have.

I've just ordered all these words.

So from it is basically from maximum to minimum.

Okay.

So this is that perfect.

Now before applying bag of words you already have seen that.

How many vocabulary size.

What is the vocabulary size.

The vocabulary size is three right.

And I can see now in a bigger data set I can have this kind of words a lot.

So I will be having all these words like this and frequency will also be there.

And one important step it is that it is not necessary that you use all the words.

This is also there in this, uh, bag of words itself.

Let's say that over here in the vocabulary, there are 100, 100 unique words.

And let's say some of the words are just present once.

Right?

So if some of the words are just present once, we even need not take that.

So when we are, when we'll be doing the coding with respect to, uh, bag of words, you know, we

also have an option that we just select the top ten features or top 20 features.

Which of the words are getting repeated more and more.

And that is the importance of this particular frequency.

Okay.

Now perfect.

Uh, we have we have we are till here.

Now the next step will be that it is very, very simple now based on the top most frequency, what I'm

actually going to do, I'm going to keep this words as my feature.

So good will come over here boy will come over here and girl will come over here okay.

Now you already know what is the sentence one right.

So sentence one what will happen is that this sentence one has.

Good boy.

Now see how this will get converted into a vectors.

Wherever good is present, that will become one.

Wherever boy is present that will become one and remaining will become zero.

So this entire sentence will be able to see, uh, that it is getting converted to 110 as a vector.

Okay.

So this was the text.

Now this is getting converted to 110 as a vector.

Now similarly if I go with respect to sentence two, wherever there is a word like good that will become

one, wherever there is a girl that will become one and remaining all will become zero.

I'll talk about the advantages and disadvantages why we are doing this.

Previously in one hot encoded, you saw that for every word we are doing this for every word, we are

creating a vector.

But here for the entire sentence, this vector is coming, okay.

And there are a lot of advantages if when I talk about this, which I'll discuss, uh, first of all,

let's understand what a more we'll be having in this.

So s three you'll be able to see the sentence three here I have boy, girl and good.

So wherever boy is there that will become one girl is there that will become one and good will be there

that will become one.

Okay, now this is my entire vectors and obviously I will also have my output variable.

The output variable can be one zeros.

Anything as such, right.

If you are probably solving the sentiment analysis or something like that okay now this are my entire

vectors okay.

And this is the vector for the entire sentence okay.

Entire syntax.

And this is how the entire bag of words converts a text into a vectors.

Okay.

Now what we can do is that we can take this particular vectors.

We can train with any machine learning model and will be able to get the output.

Now one more important thing that I really want to put, let's say that I, I have a word over here.

Right.

Good girl.

Girl.

Right.

So let's say if I have one more word like good.

Now in this case, what will happen?

Okay.

In this case what will happen usually in bag of words since good is repeated two times.

So I will increase the count to two.

Okay.

In this particular case.

So I what I'll do I will increase the count to two.

Okay.

Now there are two things.

One is binary bag of words.

And one is normal bag of words.

Now, in the case of binary bag of words, even though the count is two, what it is going to do, it

is going to force it to become one.

So most of the time, if the word is present, it may be present any number of time.

The value is either one or it is zero.

And in normal bag of words, I can increase the count to two, three, four based on the number of words

that is there.

So that is the basic difference between binary bag of words and bag of words.

That basically means here you will be having only ones and zeros.

And here based on the frequency count, will get updated.

Count will get updated.

Based on frequency.

So this is the basic difference with respect to this okay.

So I hope you have understood like how with the help of Bag of words, we are converting a text into

a vectors.

Now in the next video I'm going to discuss about what are the advantages and disadvantages with respect

to this, like how we have actually discussed in one hot encoding okay.

And first of all I'll talk about like what all problems are getting solved.

And all right.

So yes, I will see you all in the next video.

I hope you are able to understand it and just try with some other data set of your own.

Just try to create a text, try to perform all these steps and then try to convert that into a vectors.

So yes, I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to Bag of Words.

Uh, already we have understood the intuition behind Bag of Words how it is converting a text into vectors.

Now, as usual, let's go ahead and discuss about the advantages and disadvantages.

So first of all, I will go ahead and write the advantages.

And then I will go ahead and write the disadvantages.

Okay.

So uh, and obviously we have also discussed about the advantages and disadvantages with respect to

one hot encoding.

We'll try to compare with this and we'll try to see that what all problems is getting fixed okay.

First of all yes.

Again uh this is easy to implement and it is intuitive.

So I will just write something like simple and intuitive.

Simple and.

Intuitive.

Okay.

The second point, uh, with respect to advantages.

Now here, what what we'll do in one hot encoding.

You, you see that we have seen that some important thing is there in machine learning algorithm.

Right.

Okay.

With respect to sparse matrix, I'll be discussing with respect to semantic meaning out of vocabulary

everything I'll be discussing.

First let's consider this particular second topic, which is like uh for ML algorithms we give fixed

size inputs.

Now over here with respect to bag of words.

Any statement.

Now here you can see that some of the sentence may be three words, five words, ten words.

At the end of the day, based on the vocabulary size, you are able to get all the sentences converted

into that many number of dimensions of words.

So here the vectors is getting fixed.

The inputs are getting fixed because here our vocabulary is getting fixed.

So this particular problem is getting solved okay.

In uh one hot encoding you do not have a fixed size inputs.

Since we are creating words for every vectors.

Sorry, we are creating vectors for every words.

Okay, so what we are going to do over here.

The second point that you will be seeing.

Yes you have a fixed size input.

Right.

And this is a superbly help you for ML algorithms training okay ML algorithms.

Now this is the two major advantages.

Now if I talk about the disadvantage see over here the first disadvantage with respect to one hot encoding

is sparse matrix.

And I've already told you what exactly sparse matrix it is.

Nothing but ones and zeros.

Let's say if your vocabulary size is 50,000, then what will happen?

Every sentence will get converted into you know that size of the vocabulary, right?

So still sparse matrix problem is there.

So with respect to disadvantage again I'm going to write it as sparse matrix and array.

Or array is still there and this will actually lead to overfitting.

Okay.

Now second major disadvantage again.

See, at the end of the day, whatever statement that you have like good boy, good girl, you know

or it can be boy girl good.

Okay.

Something like this.

You'll be seeing that based on this sentence.

Right.

And based on this vocabulary and based on the frequency of the vocabulary, the ordering of the word

is changing.

Now, see, understand if in a sentence the ordering of the word changes.

And based on that, this vector is getting created because, see, based on the frequency, we have

written all the vector, all the all the vocabularies right over here good was present maximum number

of times.

So we wrote it as first boy was present in the second number.

So we wrote it over here.

Right.

And a girl was present uh like two for two times.

And we have written it at last.

Right now over here, you can see that if I probably consider the third statement.

Boy, girl.

Good.

Right.

But here you can see that entire word is getting ordered like it is completely changed.

Right?

The ordering of the word is completely changed.

So I'm having 110 for sentence three.

I'm having 111.

Now.

When word ordering is changed, the meaning of the sentence is also gets changed.

And because of that, some of the semantic information is not getting captured.

I'll talk about more semantic information, but here you will be able to see that ordering of the words

is getting changed.

This is super important.

Ordering of the word is getting changed.

Because if this is getting changed, the meaning of the sentence is changes, right?

Is getting changed.

So this was the second disadvantage if I probably talk about the third disadvantage.

Okay.

Third disadvantage.

Again we'll go and see over here with respect to out of vocabulary.

Now what happens if I probably add a new word like boy girl good.

And let's say I'm going to add something called a school.

Now here you will be seeing that the school word is not present in the vocabulary.

So what it is going to do for this specific word anyhow?

It is going to get rejected, right?

It is.

It is not all getting considered in this training data.

Let's say that for our new test data, in our new test data, we have included a school word, and we

need to do the prediction for this particular word with respect to output.

So the first step will be that we will do text pre-processing.

And then we'll try to convert this into a bag of words using the same technique what we did in the training

data set.

But here you see that in my training data set I do not have a vocabulary which is called as school.

So what it is going to do, it is just going to ignore this specific word, and it is just going to

see that where good and boy and girl are there.

Right?

So still out of vocabulary still exists because this word may be an important word for the sentence,

but it is getting removed because we don't have that in the vocabulary.

Right?

Major problem.

So yes, out of vocabulary is obviously a issue over here.

Right.

This still persists.

Okay.

Oh.

Oh V mm.

Now this was the there.

Now one more important thing semantic meaning in this is still not being getting captured.

Why.

I'll tell you.

Semantic meaning.

Is still not getting captured.

And there are multiple things to explain in this.

Okay.

Now, first of all, obviously you know that I'm having either ones and zeros.

Okay.

Now in this particular case good.

And boy they are getting the same importance right.

For girl.

Obviously if the word is not present I'm getting zero.

Small amount of semantic information is getting captured when compared to the one hot encoding format.

But here you see that when we have many vocabularies, either my values will be ones or zeros.

One is just indicating whether the word is present or not, but which is the most important word?

What is the most important context in that particular sentence?

That is obviously not getting captured.

And if that is not getting captured, semantic in turn will not get captured.

Now, the other thing over here is that there is there is also very important thing.

Let's say that I'm having two sentences.

Okay.

It is like the food is good.

Let's say in my data set I have this sentence.

The food is not good.

Not good.

Now, let's say I don't go ahead and remove all the stop words and all.

For this I will be having a vocabulary like one.

Uh, one.

Let's say all these words are there, okay.

And there is also a separate, uh, vocabulary.

Food is also a separate vocabulary.

Is is also a separate how many unique vocabulary are there for because naught is also there.

Right.

So these will also become one, naught will be zero and good will be one.

Right.

So this is how we convert from this to this.

Right.

Similarly from here to here.

If I really need to convert then what it will happen 11111 because naught is also present.

So I'm writing one.

Now let's say this is my vector one and this is my vector two.

If I try to find out the difference or how similar this vector is just by plotting some points, let's

say that I've converted this particular dimension to two dimension using PC, and probably I've plotted

it based on this.

Right?

Only one value is getting changed is and not right.

So I will get both these vectors very much near to each other.

And this we can basically do it through something called as cosine similarity.

So let's say this is my vector one.

This is my vector one.

This is my vector two.

So vector one is basically present over here.

Vector two is present over here if it is near to each other, if the angle between them is very near

to each other, or if the angle between them is very less.

I may say that this both the sentences are same, almost same or similar, right?

This is almost similar.

But do you think this both sentences are almost similar because it is the complete opposite of them,

right?

But since there is only one word that is getting changed because of that only one, one of the value

is getting changed over here, right?

Like zeros and ones are happening.

And when we plot this, it is becoming kind of a kind of a similar word, but this should not be a similar

word.

This is completely opposite word.

Right.

So this kind of situation is also not getting handled well with the bag of words.

And later on the techniques that will be learning like uh, word two vec and all this will be solving

all these problems.

Right?

So I hope you are able to understand the advantages and disadvantages of Baggovut.

Super important with respect to interview and if your basics of this is getting strong, trust me you

will be able to understand bag of words average word two vec.

Sorry, you'll be able to understand word two vec average word to vec in a very easy manner.

And there are techniques in deep learning which is also going to come which is called as embedding techniques.

Word embedding and all all those will get solved in a very easy way.

Right.

So I hope you are able to understand this was with respect to the bag of words.

And now in the next video, what we are going to do is that we are going to do some practicals and we'll

try to see, with the help of sklearn how we can perform bag of words.

Right.

So yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

We have already seen in our previous video about Bag of Words.

We have understood the intuition.

We have also made sure that we understood the advantages and disadvantages.

Now let's go ahead towards the practical part and see that how we can implement bag of words.

So over here I have an amazing data set which is called as spam classification.

So if I probably open this right.

So this is a data set which is having a label like ham.

And then I have a message right.

Then again I have ham.

Then again I have a message.

So here you can see spam.

And then again I have a message.

So like this I have this entire data set.

Now what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to basically apply on this particular data set,

uh, bag of words model.

And later on as we go ahead, all the different techniques also will try to see it.

So over here I'm just going to create a new Python file okay.

And uh yeah.

Let me just go ahead and write uh, bag of words.

Practicals, right?

Perfect.

So we will go line by line and we'll try to understand everything.

And first of all, we'll read the data set itself.

Okay.

Now, before I go ahead, uh, I really need some of the libraries.

So I'm going to import pandas as PD.

Okay.

And then I will just try to read this messages.

So I'll write PD dot read underscore csv.

And here you can see that, uh, obviously it is present inside a folder which is called a spam classification

master.

Or and then it is having spam.

So let's see, I'm just going to write like this spam classification master.

And then.

Spam classifier dot p y.

So I have something like spam SMS, uh, folder.

And then I can basically go ahead and write my data set name.

So inside this you'll be able to see that I have this SMS spam collection.

Right.

So I'm going to write SMS spam a SMS spam collection.

So this is my file.

You'll be able to see it okay SMS.

Spam.

Collection.

Okay, so this is my data set over here.

But remember, as I opened this particular data set, there are two things that you really need to focus

over here.

Uh, the space between this in, uh, dependent and independent feature, that is my text.

It is basically a tab.

Okay.

So I will basically be using a separator which will be a tab.

So in the next step I will write separator.

And this will basically be a slash slash t okay.

And then uh along with this what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to also assign uh a names

as my like what all features it should be simply get assigned to one is label and the one is message.

Right.

So I'm basically providing my own custom, uh, column name in short.

Right.

So once I do this, let's go ahead and execute it.

So you will be able to understand I'm just trying to read the data set over here.

So if I probably go and see the messages.

So here you'll be able to see label and message.

Right.

So I've just read this entire data set using a slash T that is a tab separator.

And then I've also provided two names Label and Message which is my column name.

Perfect.

Uh till here.

Uh, it is quite good.

We are able to see the data set, and clearly we are able to see the data set itself right now, the

first step obviously before applying bag of words we really need to clean the data.

So I'll write data cleaning and pre-processing.

Okay.

Let me make my mic a little bit straight.

Okay.

Data cleaning and pre-processing.

Now what?

All things we can actually clean the data about.

Right.

What what all processing we can basically do obviously lowering the sentences, applying stopwords if

I want applying uh uh lemmatization if I want.

So there are various ways what all things we can basically do.

Right.

So, uh, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to import some of the libraries for this.

And again, I also may need to make sure that any special character that are present in this particular

sentences, I should remove it, you know, because see this kind of words.

Uh, uh, it has two dots.

You know, these are like special words, uh, hardly being used for this kind of use cases, which

we can directly do it with the help of Stopwords itself.

So I'm going to import regular expression, I'm going to import NLTK.

And along with that I will just write nltk dot download Stopwords.

Okay.

And already we have done the downloading of this particular Stopwords.

If you are following my previous videos, but let's say that you have you have directly jumped over

here.

I'm just going to download it once again for you.

Okay, so here you will be able to see I've written S stopwords so it is already up to date.

Uh, all these things are there now.

Uh, the next thing what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to write from NLTK dot corpus import

Stopwords.

Import stopwords.

And um, I'm also going to make sure that I download from NLTK dot stem.

I import the.

NLTK dot stem dot Porter import.

Porter stemmer.

Right.

And I hope everybody knows why Porter stemmer is basically required.

So I'm just going to write it this one.

Porter stemmer this is specifically for the stemming purpose.

And along with that I will also make sure that I'll initialize this.

Okay.

So I'll write Porter Stemmer.

And I will just initialize it so that we will be able to do this.

Um, okay, I really need to write from.

Okay.

So I'm not going to edit any errors as such.

Uh, so everything whatever I am facing the error I think you should also be facing.

Or you may be also writing with respect to some mistakes.

Right.

Whenever we are trying to solve this perfect.

Uh, we have imported port statement because we really want to do the stemming.

Now, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm just going to create a list which is like corpus.

Okay, since I need to clean all the data right at the end of the day, after I clean the data, it

will be stored in this variable and let me iterate it for I in range of zero comma length.

Of messages.

Now, what I'm actually doing is that I will make sure that I go through each and every sentence.

I remove all the special character, I lower down all the sentences, I apply the stopwords, and then

I probably apply stemming.

So there are many things that we are going to do, and this task is common and generic with respect

to all the use cases.

Let's say that later on you want to solve any other use cases, right?

You can follow the same approach and that will actually help you to solve this problem statement.

Okay.

So what I'm actually going to do over here is that I'm just going to write colon okay.

And then first of all let me go ahead and take the review.

Right.

So here I will say uh, the first thing that I'm going to do is that after I go with respect to each

and every review, I first have to remove the special character.

That basically means I don't want anything else other than the, uh, words or letters over there.

Okay, so over here I'll be using re, and there is a function which is called as dot sub.

Okay.

Now in this particular function I will just apply my regular expression.

Now how do I apply my regular expression.

You can definitely try out different different things, but I'll give a simple regular expression.

And there is also a website where you can easily, uh, see that what all regular expression you need

to apply to select those similar kind of words.

Okay.

So I'll say, uh, I'll just give one simple, uh, thing with respect to this.

You know, I will say that, okay.

With respect to only if you if you find A to Z.

Okay.

Or I can also say that apart from this word like a to Z, that small A to Z or capital A to Z.

Okay, apart from this word, any words, any special character that you find, just replace it with

blank.

Okay, I'm trying to use this because there are a lot of special characters in the text, which I've

basically analyzed.

And here what I am saying is that apart from the text that is small A to Z and capital E to Z, replace

everything by blank.

So here I will be having message and this same thing.

I will try to apply it.

Now messages obviously has all the messages over here right.

But inside this I have a label called as message.

So I'm just going to apply that message.

And with respect to any index that is I, I'm just going to apply this okay.

So review what I'm doing is that I'm just substituting right.

This sub is basically nothing but substituting A to z capital A to Z along like apart from this A to

Z, any special character that you get, just replace it with blank and try to replace it in our message

and store it in a review variable.

Okay, this is perfect.

Now the next step what I'm actually going to do, I'm also going to make sure that I lower all these

words because I really need to lower this.

Okay.

If I don't lower this, then again it will be a problem after lowering the word what I will do since

I will also be having a space things, uh, I will convert this entire review into a list of reviews.

So I will write review dot split.

Okay, just to create a list of reviews.

Okay.

And then finally for each and every for each and every words like let's say if I probably just try to,

uh, execute this review okay.

How will I get so print review okay.

Okay.

It's okay.

We'll be able to see it.

Okay.

So what I've done is that I've substituted it, I've made it lower.

I have done a split with respect to each and every reviews.

Inside the sentence.

I'll get a list of words over here.

Now, after I get a list of words, what I'll do, I will apply the same concept that we did before,

right?

Uh, in, uh, lemmatization and all same process.

So over here you'll be able to see that, uh, what kind of process?

Uh, with respect to these things here.

Same process.

I will try to apply the same combination.

Whatever I did, if it is not present in Stopwords, then only you try to stem it, right?

Like how I did it in text pre-processing.

Same thing.

I will be doing it over here with respect to bag of words.

So I will say for word in review that basically means review has a list of words with respect to a specific

sentence.

I'm iterating through every word, if not word in.

If that word is not present in stop words, dot words of English if it is not present in English.

Because this is what I showed you with respect to theoretical intuition.

Right?

I'm going to take that specific word and I'm going to basically apply PS dot stem.

Very simple okay.

Nothing so complicated.

Whatever.

I have done the same thing.

I've explained you with respect to this okay.

And this I will be taking it entirely into my review variable again because I here I'm basically applying

Stopwords and stemming.

I will get all my review variable over here.

And finally you'll be able to see that I will be writing review.

Mm.

And then I'll be joining that.

All these words into a sentence again.

Okay.

And later on, what I will do instead of printing it, know the list that I have actually made.

I will just add it over there.

So I will say corpus dot append and I will append all this review.

Okay.

So once I probably execute it you'll be able to see it will take some time.

But at the end of the day we are going to clean it.

We are going to make sure that all the lowering of the words will happen.

And finally, we'll be able to get the entire corpus, because after this only we will be able to apply

the bag of words.

Now this is perfect.

It is completely done.

Now, if I probably go and see the corpus now here you can see everything is basically done right.

And obviously, you know, the disadvantage of stemming some of the words will not come right.

But uh, maximum number of words will come right.

If you want to make it more accurate, you can definitely apply Lemmatization.

And if you also want to make sure that you apply snowball stemmer, you can also do that.

That will be a task that I really want to give it to you as an assignment.

Okay, you can try both of them.

But again understand with Lemmatization it will take more time.

Okay, so this is my entire text, uh, my input data.

Okay.

Input data with respect to all the things.

And uh, let's see what will happen in the next step that we are going to basically apply bag of words.

Now let's go ahead and create the bag of words.

As you know I already know what is my output variable okay.

My output variable is nothing but the spam and ham the label column.

Right.

And this is specifically my input features.

I need to convert this into vectors.

So now we are going to create the bag of words model.

Now this is super important guys how the bag of words model is created.

So just go and search for sklearn bag of words.

Okay.

And, uh, here, uh, with respect to sklearn, you have a library which is called as countvectorizer.

Now, this countvectorizer I'm going to specifically use for the bag of words.

And here we are going to discuss about some of the important keywords.

Okay.

Then only we'll be able to understand okay.

There is there are so many keywords that we will try to solve it okay.

And uh, with respect to that only we'll try to, uh, solve more of the problem statement as we go

ahead.

Okay.

So, uh, let's go ahead and create it.

So first of all, I will just import Countvectorizer.

So I'll say from sklearn dot feature extraction dot text, we are going to import Countvectorizer.

Okay.

So here what I'm actually going to do is that I'm just going to write something like this from sklearn

dot.

Feature extraction.

Dot text import.

Count Vectorizer.

Okay.

So and then I will initialize to count Vectorizer.

Now you need to understand some of the things with respect to the parameters okay.

Now here you can see that if I probably zoom in there is also something called as lower case is equal

to true.

See we did not have to do the lower case manually.

Right.

You can also use this particular library to and make sure that you just put lower case is equal to true.

It will also do for you okay.

And they are also stopwords.

You can also apply stopwords.

But we have already done that.

So I'm not going to focus on that.

This n gram range I will talk about it uh in the upcoming sessions.

Right now.

Let's go ahead and focus more on this particular feature, which is called as Max underscore feature.

Now in this I have already told you see based on frequency right.

We can pick up the top ten features, top 20 features, top 30 features.

Right.

And you know that whenever we try to solve any problem with respect to sentiment analysis and all,

we obviously get some kind of vocabulary size.

But when I see right how frequent those vocabulary is basically present.

Right.

And it is not necessary that every, every, every one will be available for 100 times or 200 times,

there will be some of the words that will be just present for once and twice.

And sometimes those words will not play a very important role.

Okay, so what we basically do is that we can set some max features.

Okay.

I'll just give you one idea that how we can set a max features, uh, with respect to this, but other

than that n gram n gram underscore range will discuss it later on.

Not right now, but I really want to show you an example with respect to max underscore features by

default.

Other things we have already done it so we don't have to really worry about it okay.

And one by one will try to complete it.

And if you are not able to understand it, uh, don't worry, everything will be covered as we go step

by step.

So here you will be seeing that Max features.

Let's say I'm seeing that out of all these words, out of all these words, right from the vocabulary,

take the top 2500 words, which has having the maximum frequency.

Okay.

So this is what I'm actually creating.

I'm creating a bag of words which is saying that take the top 500, uh, top 2500 words from this particular

data set, which is having the maximum number of frequency.

So once I execute it.

So this is my CV.

Okay.

Now after this, all I will do is that I will just say CV dot fit underscore transform.

And I will apply it into my entire data set like corpus.

Right.

The corpus is basically having my entire data set.

And I will try to convert this into an array and let me save this in my x variable.

Now if I probably go and see my x values.

So here you'll be able to see that I'm getting so many different, different x values, and some or

the other way you will be able to find the ones and zeros.

Now see, I've taken the Max 2500 words, right?

And because of that you will be able to see this.

So in short, if I probably see x dot shape I've taken that okay.

Take 2500 max number of features.

So obviously the number of vocabulary size, the number of columns that I'm going to have is 2500.

Let's say if I say take the max 100 features and I just try to do the transformation with respect to

the on the X itself.

So if you remember this, I'm just going to execute this on the corpus.

And now if I go and see this will be my shape with the next uh 100 vocabulary size.

Right.

And if I again go and see my x.

So here also you'll be able to see somewhere once, once will come and remaining all will be zero,

one will come and remaining all be zero, ones will come remaining, all will be zero.

There will be multiple ones wherever those specific word is present.

Now you need to understand one more thing over here.

I'm getting two.

So this basically becomes that this is not binary bag of words.

This is normal bag of words.

Now how do I make sure that I also enable this binary bag of words.

So for that you just go back to sklearn and there will be a feature which is called as binary.

Let's see where it is.

Uh, over here we are not able to find out.

Okay.

Here it is binary okay.

So what I'm actually going to do I'm going to just go over here along with this Max feature.

I'm just going to write a comma and I'm going to write binary is equal to true right now.

Once I do this right now, you will be able to see that you're having twos right after I apply.

This binary is equal to true.

No, you will not be able to find out any values that will be greater than one, because even though

it is greater than one, it is always going to set it as one.

Okay.

And once I execute it now here you'll be able to see either I'll be getting once at zeros.

Okay.

So all this specific thing has got updated.

You'll have only ones and zeros.

Now it is up to you which you want to basically use.

And again it depends to problem to problem statement whether you want to go with binary bag of words

or not okay.

So I'm just going to write it over here.

For.

Binary.

Bag of words.

Enable.

Binary is equal to true.

Okay, so this is done.

Very good.

Uh, we are in the right state and we are able to convert this into this.

And here I'm just going to execute it.

Let me keep binary is equal to true.

Otherwise I don't want you all to miss this.

So done.

And this is what we are able to get.

Now understand the array shape.

Since I've taken the.

Up max 100 features are having the maximum frequency.

The column size will be 100, right.

And this 5572 is basically the length of the entire list.

Okay, so here we have got a complete idea about how to basically convert this into bag of words.

You can play with max features.

You can play with binary.

You can play with other things.

But the most important thing is that you really need to understand what is ng underscore gram range,

which I will show you in the next video.

First, we'll understand the theoretical intuition behind it and then we will try to also implement

it.

But right now I feel that yes, we have done a bag of words easily.

We have converted this word into entire vectors, which is a very, very good thing, very amazing thing,

because now we know at least how to convert a text into the vectors.

Now what I can take, I can take all these arrays as my independent features and all this particular

output like label ham and spam, and we'll try to solve the problems.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it from my side.

I hope you like this particular video.

Please make sure that you keep on practicing with different, different data sets.

But one assignment that I really want to give you over here is that please make sure that you try to

do it with the help of, uh, lemmatization.

Also, uh, instead of doing stemming, just try to do lemmatization because you may get a better accuracy

with respect to that also.

Okay.

So that will be an assignment.

So yes, uh, this was it from my side.

And yes, I will see you all in the next video.

Thank.

Hello guys.

We are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video we are going to discuss about a very important topic which is called as n grams.

Now why n grams is used and it can also be used with bag of words and TF-IDF.

But till now we have just discussed about bag of words.

Let me take a very, very good example.

Suppose I have two sentences and this particular sentence is something like this.

The food is good.

Okay.

Food is good.

And the food is not good.

Okay, now here you will be able to see that both these words are completely different.

That is completely, exactly opposite of each other, right?

Both these sentences.

This is my sentence one.

And this is my sentence two.

So I cannot say that these two sentences are same okay.

Now what I will do is that I and obviously over here.

Right.

Let's consider that these are my vocabulary.

The food is good okay.

Food is good.

Or let me just add this vocabulary.

Food is not good okay.

These are my vocabulary with respect to feature one.

Feature two, feature three, feature four.

Because these are the possible vocabulary that I have, I'm not considering the because there can be

a stop word.

I can also remove is let's let's remove these.

Okay, so what are the possible vocabulary that is basically present?

I'll basically having food.

I'll be having this not keyword because not keyword will distinguish right whether the sentence is positive

or negative.

So this is super important.

So I may have this all possible options with respect to vocabulary.

Now for the sentence one I may get a a vector of something like this 101 right.

Because not is not present over here.

So obviously it is going to be zero for the sentence.

Two I will be getting something like one, one one right.

Understand that why one is is not present because we have removed this with the help of stop words.

Okay?

We have removed this with the help of stop words.

Not a problem.

You may be thinking Krish not can also be there in the stop.

Or it can be, but we are not going to add it because this word is basically distinguishing the entire

sentence.

Now you need to understand that with respect to this two vectors, you will be seeing that these two

vectors are almost similar.

Only one change is there, like zero and one.

In real world scenario, I will say that this two sentences are completely opposite of each other,

but when I'm trying to convert this into vectors, it is just more almost similar with only one change.

Right?

And this is a bigger issue right now.

What we'll do is that we'll try to solve this problem with the help of N-grams.

Now see, this is super important and you try to understand this.

Now you know that these are my possible options.

These are my possible options with respect to words.

Right?

So I have my first word like food.

Not good.

Right.

So this is my initial vocabulary.

Now what I'll do is that I will make a combination of this.

Let's say from the sentence one, I'm going to make a combination of something like this food good.

Right.

So my next word that you will be having is something called as food good.

And let's say that I am going to just perform by gram, not by gram.

Also by gram basically means that I will have the combination of two words, right?

So I'll be having food.

Good.

Then similarly over here you'll be able to see I will also be having something like this food not right.

So this is one combination.

One more combination I have over here.

Food not okay.

And then the next combination will be not good right.

So here I will be having my next word which looks something like this.

Not good right now.

See this.

Now if this becomes a possible vectors then we will be able to clearly distinguish much more better

when compared to this.

And here I have implemented by gram.

By gram basically means combination of two words.

I can also take two grams in try gram, I'll take the combination of three words like food not good

right?

So that will be one combination, right?

Something like that.

So let's understand with respect to by gram.

Now how will the vectors get updated for sentence one.

Wherever there is a food I will put it as one.

Not is not present.

I'll put it as zero.

Good is present.

I'll put it as one.

Now wherever food good is present, I will put it as one.

Wherever food not is present, I'll put it as zero.

So food not is not present over here, right?

If food not is present over here, I'll put it as one.

But right now it is not present.

Not good.

Over here with respect to sentence one is also not present.

So I will make it as zero.

Now if I go with respect to sentence two.

Okay.

Now see the difference between the vectors will be very much there.

Okay so food is there.

I will put it as one not is there.

I will put it as one.

Good is there.

I'll put it as one food.

Good combination.

You can see that continuous combination is not there.

Let's say I'm going to put it as zero food.

Not is there food not is there?

Obviously I'm going to put it as one.

And food uh not good is also there.

I'm going to put it as one.

Now here you can see that if I try to compare this two vectors now, they are not exactly the same.

And there is a huge difference because I have one difference over here, two difference over here,

three difference over here, four difference over here.

Now my model, my model will be able to clearly distinguish these two sentences because I have implemented

something called as Ngrams.

Right now, if I probably consider trigrams, that basically means I'm going to make a combination of

three words, right?

So in sklearn here in sklearn you have a very important parameter which is called as n grams okay.

And you can make a combination of something like this.

If I make a combination of one comma one, that basically means I'm just going to implement unigram.

Unigram basically means only one word vocabulary.

Okay.

If I write the combination like one comma two, then what it is going to do it is going to consider

something like unigram and bigram, like how I have explained you in this example.

This is a combination of unigram and bigram.

Okay.

And if I probably consider like this one comma three, then what I'm actually going to do, I'm going

to get a combination of unigram bigram and trigram.

So trigram basically means three three words right.

All the possible combination with respect to this.

And then suppose let's say if I'm writing two comma three then it is not going to take unigram.

It is going to take the combination of bigram and trigram.

And this is what I'm going to show you probably in the next video.

But understand why we are specifically using n grams over here.

Right?

Super important topic.

Since we are going to use the combination of all these words, it will give us a very good contextual

information about the sentence and wherever.

Do you feel that the sentence is completely opposite?

But still we are getting the similar kind of vectors.

This can be very, very handy.

So I hope you are able to understand about n grams.

And uh, in the next video we'll try to do some practical implementation with respect to this, which

will be superbly important.

Okay.

So let's go ahead and uh, I'll see you all in the next video.

Thank.

Hello guys.

We are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In our previous video, we have already seen Ngrams intuition.

Now we will try to implement it with the help of NLTK.

We are going to take the same problem statement what we have taken for the spam classification.

So this is how we had actually created a bag of words, right where I took maximum features as 100.

Like most occurring, frequent occurring words, uh, I have taken that as top 100 words.

Now, if you really want to find out what are the top 100 words.

So you basically need to, after you do the fit transform, right.

You just need to take the CV and uh, you can just write dot vocabulary.

And this part I had actually missed while explaining bag of words.

So these are my top 100 words.

Go great.

Go out what okay free win text txt say already I think so here you can see these all are indexes of

the columns right.

So if I probably say which is the first first column that you will be able to find, it is nothing but

ask.

Right.

Which is the second column.

It is something like babe.

Okay.

Uh, third column like that.

So total you will be able to see it will be having the indexes from uh, 1 to 100.

Right.

Something like that.

So these are my top 100 words okay.

So this is with respect to CV dot vocabulary.

If you are able to find it out you'll be able to if you're just executing this you'll be able to do

it.

Now let's go back to this sklearn feature extraction.

Now this is super important.

Now I'm talking about this n-gram underscore range okay.

Now see this.

What will happen once I just copy and paste the same thing.

So let's say I'm going to copy this and I'm going to paste it over here okay.

I'm just going to paste it over here.

Now this is super important okay.

So I'm just going to execute this and I'm going to paste it over here.

Here I'm just going to say n gram okay.

Now you know that there is a parameter which is called as n gram range okay.

Now once I do one comma one nothing is going to change.

Now see this okay.

Nothing is going to change.

And I'm just going to do the same fit transform on the corpus okay.

And I'm going to save it in X okay.

We need to do fit underscore transform.

So once I execute this here if I go and write CV dot vocabulary.

And now if I show you it will be the same word.

See.

So these are the 100 most frequently uh frequent occurring words.

And here I have given n n gram underscore range as one comma one.

That basically means all my features will be one.

There will not be any combination of two words like bi gram or tri gram.

Now see this?

Okay, what I will do is that I will change this to one comma two.

Now once I write one comma two, now it is going to be the combination of uni gram and bi gram.

Okay, uni gram and bi gram.

Now see this?

Okay.

And I'm also going to increase the number of max features.

Let's say I'm going to make it as 200 okay.

Now let me just go ahead and execute.

And now let me see the vocabulary.

Now vocabulary over here you can see uh all these words are there single single words are there.

Now as you go ahead, right there will be two words.

See over here, please call.

Okay.

So here you will be able to see.

Please call.

And you won't be able to see the other words because that is not the maximum occurring words.

Let's say I want to increase this number.

Let's say I'm going to basically write it as uh 500.

Now the number of words will keep on increasing.

So yeah.

Here you can see that LED noise uh, in the is in the 22, 28 index of the column.

Right.

Still you have how many please call is also there which is present in the 325 index.

And that index number is basically given based on the maximum number of occurring frequency.

Right.

So uh, more words.

Are there something called as customer service.

Right.

And if I probably go and explore more price guarantee guarantee call try contact.

See all these words are definitely there.

There is obviously some spelling mistakes but it's fine.

So over here LTE Deciem Deciem g GT something something is there now you see.

Good morn.

Right.

So morning.

Something like that.

Good night.

Right.

So this is the basically the combination of this.

Now what I can also do is that if I really want to see the maximum occurring, uh, just a bigram kind

of words, I can just write two comma two.

That basically means I'm ignoring I mean ignoring unigram.

So now here you will be seeing that free entry claim call call claw claim free call chance whenever

every combination of the possible words are basically there along with the column index.

Now, I hope you are able to get an idea what is the basic difference between unigram bigram trigram.

Right?

So suppose if you also want trigram with respect to this one I can basically write one comma three.

Now lets me do one thing.

I'll also take a combination of us three comma three.

Let's see.

Uh and let's execute this.

Now here you can see call claim code.

So this is the sixth index.

That basically means this kind of message are occurring more in the and this is basically in the column

sixth index.

Right.

Like l t g t sorry.

Call letter please call custom call custom service.

Right.

All these things are there.

Now you can see this is the combination of three words.

Right now if I want to use the combination of two and three I can basically use two and three bigram

and trigram.

So here you can see call customer service.

Then you can see let know.

Then you can basically see claim call.

So you can basically make the combination of various unigram bigram and trigram.

Usually if you are not getting a better accuracy first of all start with one comma one.

Okay, I'll tell you the simple phenomena.

Just try with one comma, one with respect to one comma one.

You will be getting a vocabulary word which is the most frequent words, right?

Let's say with respect to this you are not getting a good accuracy.

Then what you can do, you can increase one comma two and go ahead and execute it.

Right.

Suppose let's say it is not increasing.

Then what you can do try one comma three.

Now if even one comma three is not working you can play with this max feature also.

And these are kind of hyper parameter.

You can play with different different max features.

If that combination is also not working.

Use the combination of try bigram and trigram and this will definitely give you a better answer.

Right?

So definitely my suggestion would be that try to check each and every parameters of this and how we

can basically use it.

N-gram underscore range plays a very important role.

And this was with respect to the practical.

I've already shown you that how you can play with this and how you can actually use it.

Right.

So, uh, at the end of the day, after you do this now, you will be able to see that once I make this

combination.

Right.

And this will basically be my vector of x.

So here, if I probably go ahead and execute.

So this is how my vector of x is there.

You will also be having ones and zeros since binary in true and all the remaining things are actually

there.

So I hope you got an idea about how to implement n gram.

Uh, yes, this was it.

Uh, in the next video we'll try to see with respect to TF-IDF intuition and uh, we'll also try to

solve it with the help of penalty.

Okay.

So yes, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In our previous video we have already seen what is N-grams.

Now, what we are going to do is that we are going to see one more efficient way of converting a words

into vectors, and we specifically say it as tf IDF.

Now what exactly tf IDF is?

It is nothing but term frequency and inverse document frequency.

So we will try to understand how, with the help of tf IDF, we will be converting all this particular

sentences into vectors.

Okay.

And I've taken the same example, what we specifically did with bag of words like good boy.

And this is after lowering all the, uh, cases or character cases along with that, after performing

or after removing the stop words.

So I have sentence one as good boy, sentence two as good girl, sentence three as boy girl good.

Okay.

And this is the same thing like, uh, from the same materials, if you will be able to see I've done

the same thing.

I've taken the same thing over here.

Okay.

Now, there are two components in tf IDF.

One is term frequency and the other one is something called as inverse document frequency.

So whenever I talk about term frequency, term frequency definition or the formula how we calculate

it, it is given by number of repetition of words in sentence divided by number of words in sentence.

Okay, I'll try to show you completely.

Taking this as an example, how we can calculate term frequency.

And over here inverse document frequency formula is very simple.

We basically calculate it by inverse document frequency is nothing but log to the base e number of sentences

divided by number of sentences containing the word.

Now this is super important, and uh, probably don't get confused with the formula right now.

Uh, I will try to explain you each and every thing.

Okay.

So let's go step by step and let's see how we can calculate the term frequency.

Now first thing that I am going to make sure that what I calculate is nothing.

But I will be using this term frequency.

Now with respect to this term frequency, you know that how many vocabulary of words are there?

Okay.

So first of all, uh, I will just try to show you in a different way by creating a table.

So I have s one sentence, I have s two sentence and I have s three sentence.

Okay.

And then with respect to my vocabulary of words I have something like good okay.

Then I have boy and then I have girl.

And already we know that only three words are basically present in the vocabulary.

I'm trying to show you, show you with a simple example so that you will be able to understand how tf

IDF will work.

Okay, now the first thing, let's go back to the definition.

Term frequency is nothing but number of repetition of words in a sentence divided by number of words

in a sentence.

So suppose if I take s one and with respect to s one.

If I really want to find out the term frequency of this particular word, that is good.

How do I calculate?

I just need to see how many number of times this particular word is repeated in the sentence.

So here you know that it is repeated just one time, and then I will be dividing by number of words

in that specific sentence.

So it will become one by two, because I have two words.

Now let's go to the next word that is boy.

So boy is also present how many number of times one.

And this will be divided by two.

Okay.

I'll tell you why we are doing this.

Because when we understand the advantages and disadvantages, you will get a clear idea about why tf

IDF will better play, perform, or will perform better than compared to bag of words.

Okay then I have the word girl.

So girl, I know that over here it is not present right in the sentence one.

So it will be zero by zero by two.

So which is nothing but zero okay.

Similarly, with respect to s two here you will be able to see how many times good is present only one

time and the total number of words is two.

So one by two boy is present zero times.

So it will be zero by two, which will be nothing but zero.

And girl is basically present over here one time.

So again I'm going to write one by two.

Now let's go with respect to the sentence three.

So sentence three how many times good is present one time and the total number of words now is three.

Right.

And then if I go next, uh, to see the boy word, how many times boy is present?

Only one time.

So this will also be one by three.

And girl will also be present one by three, because the total number of words are three.

Okay, so this is how simple we are able to calculate the term frequency okay.

Now let's go ahead and let's try to find out the inverse document frequency.

So I'm just going to write over here as IDF.

Now with respect to IDF also we will be creating two fields very simple fields.

And remember uh this will basically be my IDF.

And this is with respect to my words over here.

So my words are nothing but good boy.

Oh, let me write it down in a better way so that in the it should look in the same order.

So here will be my good.

Here will be my boy.

And here the next word is something like girl.

Now, in order to calculate the inverse document frequency, it is very much simple.

Now all I have to apply this log base E.

Right.

How many number of sentences are there with respect to good right.

With respect to good.

Uh, suppose if I really want to calculate the inverse document frequency of good.

Okay.

So here what I'm writing, I'll write log base e multiplied by number of sentences.

How many sentences are there.

There are three sentences.

So three divided by number of sentences containing the word.

So good is present in all these three sentences 123.

Right.

So I will basically be writing log to the base three divided by three okay.

And if I basically calculate this, if you try to calculate it it is nothing.

But I will be getting a zero okay.

And you can basically do with the calculator boy over here.

Again log to the base E number of sentences are three.

And how many times boy is present?

How many times boy is present in uh how many sentences?

Boy is basically present.

It is present one two right.

Sentence one and sentence three.

So I will be writing log base uh, base E multiplied by three by two.

Similarly girl will also be present same number of time.

If you probably see how many sentences girl is basically present.

Okay, so I have independently calculated term frequency and I have independently calculated inverse

document frequency.

This is perfect right now whenever we say TF-IDF.

In short what I'm actually doing I'm multiplying this two okay term frequency and inverse document.

I'm taking the combination of this two.

Now let me go ahead and write it down in a better way.

Still uh, in the way that we specifically want.

And finally how our vectors will look like.

So this is my vocabulary.

Good boy.

Girl.

And this is the final tip.

Uh tf IDF okay, so final TF IDF based on this calculation and this will differ based on data set to

data set.

Okay.

So first of all, with respect to sentence one, whenever I see the combination of tf IDF with respect

to good, all I have to do is that multiply one by two with this zero okay.

So I'm going to multiply this with this.

So in sentence one.

So see this is the sentence one right.

This is this entire thing is the sentence one.

Right.

So this is my sentence one okay.

So I will be taking this combination and multiply with this right.

So sentence one good one by two multiplied by zero.

It is nothing but zero with respect to boy one by two multiplied by log base E one by two multiplied

by log base E three by two will be the value that I'll be getting in sentence one.

And with respect to girl zero multiplied by this it will be zero.

Now let's go to the sentence two.

In sentence two I will go ahead and look for this.

Now again one by two, multiplied by zero.

Again good will be zero.

And this boy is nothing but zero by zero.

So this zero multiplied by zero is nothing but zero.

And here I have one by two multiplied by log base e three by two.

I will tell you the exact thing.

What we really need to know why we are doing this specific thing.

Everything will make sense.

Uh, and it will make sense.

And I'll make you definitely understand all these things.

Okay.

So coming to the next one with respect to sentence three, in sentence three, I will do this multiplication

with this.

Right.

So one by three multiplied by zero.

Again it will be zero one by three multiplied by log base e three by two and one by three multiplied

by log base E three by two.

Perfect.

So we have got all this calculation.

And this is how my vectors will look like.

So here you will be seeing that for sentence one.

We converted this entire sentence into vectors which looks like this.

Right.

So this is my sentence one vector.

This is my sentence two vector.

And this is my sentence three vector.

And obviously I'll be having a output with respect to any kind of classification that I want to do.

And then I will train my model by passing my sentence one.

So in short, if you see good Boy is basically converted into a vector which will look like this.

Okay, this entire sentence one is getting a converted into a vector zero this and this zero.

Right.

So again you can calculate this with the help of calculator.

But this is what is the way that we have actually done.

We have converted all our sentences into vectors.

And in TF-IDF this is the phenomenon that is used in converting the words into vectors.

Now you may be thinking, Krish, what is so special about this?

We have got some values.

Okay, that is fine.

And that is what I'm going to talk about in my next video about the advantages and disadvantages of

TF-IDF.

At the end of the day, the best one is nothing but word two vec.

But I really need to show you this also.

Because majority of the use cases.

Also you can basically solve with this technique that is TF-IDF technique.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it, uh, for this particular video.

I hope you like it.

Uh, again, you can take different, different sentences and just try to apply this and try to see

whether you are able to find out TF-IDF or not.

So yes, I will see you all in the next video where I'll be discussing about the advantages and disadvantages.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to Tfidf.

And already I've shown you how we can what is the formula of Tfidf.

That is term frequency and IDF.

That is inverse document frequency.

And I've also shown you an example over here.

Right.

So till here that is everything is fine.

Now let's talk about the most important thing about advantages and disadvantages and why this is probably

better than bag of words okay.

So first of all, uh, the basic advantage that we have again, this is quite intuitive.

Uh, the implementation is also quite intuitive.

Uh, coming to the second advantage.

Okay.

Like bag of words.

Uh, here also our inputs are basically fixed size.

And this is based on the vocab size.

Right.

And this advantage is also present with respect to bag of words that is also there.

But the third advantage that I'm actually going to talk about see in bag of words.

Also we had fixed size right.

But this third advantage is a major advantage.

Now let's talk about the third advantage okay.

So the third advantage is that the word importance is getting captured.

I'll explain you what exactly this is.

Word importance is getting captured.

Super important point.

And probably they may also ask you this specific thing in interviews.

Now, if I probably go and see my entire paragraph, let's say this is my paragraph.

Good boy, good girl, boy girl.

Good, right?

I'm getting a TF-IDF of this number.

Right.

And over here I.

I have also written this with the help of bag of words in bag of words.

I used to get either ones or zeros wherever that word is present, that is coming as one.

Otherwise it is zero.

If it is not present in the sentence.

But now the word importance is getting captured.

Over here equal importance is given to both the word like good and boy, right, because it is present

in the sentences.

But here it does not work like that here, considering the entire paragraph, what it is happening is

that we are focusing on two things term frequency.

Inverse document frequency.

If if a word is present in all the sentences, it should be given less importance.

Understand this okay, if a word is present in all the sentences in that paragraph, it should be given

less importance.

Why?

Because all the all the sentences having that specific word.

So it is not playing that amazing or important role.

Word importance needs to be captured from every sentence.

That is what we specifically want.

Now over here you can see that boy is there.

Right over here.

Girl is there.

Now boy and girl are getting repeated in 1 or 2 sentences, not in every sentences.

So if it is not repeated in every sentences, we need to value this particular word in every sentences

as such.

So if I probably take an example of good, good is present in all these three sentences.

So we calculate tfidf.

Here you will be seeing that all zeros we are getting over here major major issue right.

So not a issue but it is a good thing we are ignoring the good word because it is present in all the

sentence.

Now if I consider with respect to boy.

So sentence one boy will play a very important role now, right?

So with respect to boy here, you will be seeing that I am getting some values right.

I'm getting some values.

Now in the second sentence obviously boy was not there, so it became zero.

But if I consider girl in the second sentence.

So here you will be seeing that I'm getting some value.

That basically means in this particular sentence, the girl word is super important, and the context

is based on that specific word that we are having a value of tfidf.

Right?

So in short, what is happening is that word importance is getting captured.

And in the third sentences it is talking about both boy and girl.

So you will be seeing that both this boy and girl has some values.

So in short we are capturing some word importance over here based on the context.

Right?

Super important point.

And by this our machine learning model will be able to understand that okay, something specific we

are basically talking about.

And that way the mathematical models will be able to find out what kind of predictions it actually wants.

And through this the accuracy increases.

Now let's talk about the disadvantages.

Obviously in this particular case also you have lot number of zeros.

So sparsity still exists okay.

Sparsity is still exist over here.

Uh and again we will try to see how we can solve sparsity using word two vec.

The second thing is that what we specifically discuss about is something called as oov out of vocabulary.

Now here also if I probably add any more words over here with respect to the test data, that is going

to get ignored because uh, over here also all my features is basically made based on our training vocabulary

size.

Right.

So this is basically the advantages and disadvantages with respect to.

Uh tfidf.

But definitely just by seeing the advantages and disadvantages, we can definitely know that Tfidf performs

better than bag of words right now.

Uh, in the next video, we'll try to see some practical, uh, implementation with the help of NLTK

and Python.

And again, guys, you really need to practice this considering different, different data sets.

We will try to provide you more assignments as possible so that you can practice these things also.

So yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.


Transcript
Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to Tfidf.

And now we are going to basically implement it with the help of Python.

And we'll try to see that how easily we can implement the Tfidf with respect to all the concepts that

we have learnt in our previous video.

I'm going to take the same example with respect to um, PD dot read underscore CSV with respect to the

data set that we specifically have over here.

Spam collection.

Right.

So this is the data set that we specifically have.

So I am just going to rename this over here just a second.

Uh spam classifier.

Yeah.

So this is my data set.

Uh, like how we did it for the bag of words, uh, and all the things.

And again, this is the normal cleaning process that we specifically did.

I think, uh, all these things are repeated, right?

Porter Stemmer and all and all.

And here also, you'll be able to see that, uh, we are basically cleaning the data, lowering it,

splitting it, and applying stopwords and then stemming it.

Okay.

Uh, so just to make some little bit changes, what I'll do instead of doing stemming, right?

I'll do Lemmatization.

So already I've shown you how to perform Lemmatization.

And for that we import word net Lemmatizer.

Right.

So I'm just going to go over here, copy and paste it over here.

And instead of using Porter Stemmer I'm just going to use word net Lemmatizer just to give you an added

flavor.

So I will write word lemmatize and I'll execute this okay.

And then right instead of writing dot stem I will write word Lemmatize dot lemmatize.

Okay.

So I think this is almost repeated.

I've done it again and again.

Now I think you'll be able to understand.

Now this will probably take some time based on the size of the data set we have.

Uh, and again, yeah, obviously it is going to take time.

So we'll just wait.

Uh, but, uh, let me repeat what I did instead of doing stemming.

I'm actually doing word net lemmatizer.

Right.

And this is also one of the things that you should always try different different variety of things.

Right.

So finally it is done.

And this is my corpus.

Now with respect to the corpus, you'll already be able to get correct words over here.

Right.

And these are all my sentences input sentences and which I will probably be using to further create

TF-IDF.

Now to create TF-IDF.

I've already opened this tf IDF Vectorizer.

It is again present in sklearn.

Uh, it is again a technique.

Whatever things we explained you, I explained you with respect to tf IDF similar all the things that

will be done, but it is almost like, uh, bag of words.

All the features are like bag of words here.

Also you have lowercase, you have tokenizer, you have uh, analyzer and all these things.

And you also have n gram.

Right.

So you can also perform n grams over here.

Now let me go ahead and let me try to implement and show you how you can implement Tfidfvectorizer.

So I will say from sklearn dot so feature extraction uh dot text import.

Uh tf IDF Vectorizer.

Okay, so I'm going to basically use this and let me make my mic a little bit straight.

Yeah.

So over here, uh, this is done.

Now all I have to do is that initialize Tfidfvectorizer provide, uh, after initializing it.

Right.

Like how we did it for bag of words in the bag of words.

If you see in our previous statement we imported this and then we initialized with max features this.

So what I'm going to do I'm just going to initialize this with the same thing okay.

And over here binary will not be required because binary is not at all required because binary.

It will not be working with respect to that.

Like how we used to work in bag of words.

Right.

So that's it.

See?

Same thing.

I've done it over here.

Now what I'll do, I will just say tf IDF as my variable.

And then let's say I'm going to take the top 100 most occurring words.

Right.

So after this I will write tf IDF dot fit underscore transform fit underscore transform on my corpus.

Right.

Like how we did it in the bag of words right fit underscore transform on corpus.

And then I'll finally I'll convert it this into an array.

Right.

So two array.

And I will store this in my variable x.

So once I do it now you'll be able to see X over here.

And for that I'm also importing this numpy so that I can see all my values.

Again not a big issue because just I'm saying I'm trying to display all the arrays uh, clearly over

here.

Right.

So if I probably go and click on X.

So now you will be able to see I'm getting decimal values like 0.43, 4.46, 1.554.

Similarly you will be able to see these are nothing but word importance importance of the word that

is given in a specific sentence.

So you'll be seeing different different values like 0.3650.384.

Now here you're not getting ones and zeros.

So definitely some importance to the word is definitely given over here okay.

So this is what simply so easily you can actually do with the help of tf IDF Vectorizer.

Now what I will do along with this, I will try to again go ahead and show you in n in n grams.

Also, you can also create words and let's say here I'm just writing n gram range.

Let's say I want to go ahead and try with two comma 222 words okay.

And once I execute it this is entirely executed.

But before that let me show you the vocabulary.

Okay so sorry tf IDF tf IDF dot vocab.

So if I probably go and see the vocab.

So these are all the words that has been selected as a feature.

So I gave two comma two.

You can also give one comma two uh and based on that you will be getting the top 100 most frequent occurring

combination of words with respect to two comma two.

Right.

Same thing.

No changes, nothing as such.

So that is why I like this.

Because you don't have to do anything.

You're just trying to understand which is the better one.

What advantage is it basically have right now.

Finally, if I probably go and see the x value with respect to this here also you'll be able to see

some of the other updates, which is not probably if you explore it some or the other way, you'll be

able to see it.

See over here 0.688 .726.

So all this combinations are already available 0.588.56 so this is one sentence vector.

You know, this is the another sentence vector.

And this size will be 100.

Why.

Because your vocab size is basically 100.

You have taken the top 100 occurring words that are there with respect to frequency.

So yes.

Uh, this was about the tf IDF practicals.

Uh, in the next step, all we have to do is that take this vectors apply with any machine learning

algorithm and you will be able to get the output.

But before that you really need to do train, test split and all and all.

Anyhow I'll be showing you some uh project implementations also, and we'll also be doing some end to

end projects.

Right.

So yes, this was it.

Uh, I hope you have understood this.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing for machine learning.

In this video we are going to discuss about word embeddings.

And this was probably the topic that I should have covered long back.

But I am deliberately keeping this particular topic at this point of time.

Why?

Because we have discussed so many topics wherein we focused on converting word into vectors.

So I now you'll be getting a very clear idea about what exactly word embeddings is.

And here I've given you a Wikipedia definition.

So this is a very simple Wikipedia definition.

I have taken it from Wikipedia.

So the entire credit goes to Wikipedia over here.

So over here you can see the definition that in natural language processing word embedding is a term

used for representation of the words right for text analysis, typically in the form of real valued

vectors, that encodes the meaning of the word such that the word are closer in the vector space are

expected to be similar in the meaning.

So let's say that I have two words king and queen.

Okay, or forget about king and queen.

Let's say that I have two words, and the two word is like happy.

And excited, right?

Let's say I have this two specific word now when I have this two specific word with the help of word

embedding techniques, what we do is that we convert this particular word into vectors.

And let's say if I try to plot this vectors in a two dimensional graph, okay.

And in if I really want to convert this into two dimensional graph, we have techniques like PCA or

other techniques, which is an unsupervised technique to do dimensionality reduction.

So once I probably plot this, let's say happy and excited are coming near to each other based on this

particular vectors.

It basically indicates both are similar word.

Okay, let's say that I have one more word like angry.

Now in this case with the help of word embeddings.

If I'm trying to convert this into vectors, the tentative thing is that obviously happy is the opposite

to angry.

So angry will be somewhere here.

If I probably try to plot this particular, uh, vectors over here.

Why?

Why it is coming so far?

Because it is an opposite word.

So the distance between this word will be quite high, whereas the distance between this particular

word will be quite less.

So this indicates that this both the words are similar, whereas this both words are opposite to each

other.

Right.

And this is all possible because of efficient conversion of the word into vectors.

Right.

And how we are doing this again with the help of word embeddings.

But the techniques we have learnt till now is it is something like one hot encoded.

We have learnt about bag of words, we have learnt, tfidf we have learnt and all these techniques are

a part of word embeddings.

So if I properly clearly show you the division, you know in the first step if I have the word embedding

techniques.

So let me just again go ahead and write it.

Word embedding techniques are specifically of two types.

So this is my first type and this is my second type.

The first type is based on count or frequency.

Count or frequency.

And the second type is based on deep learning trained models.

Please hear to this very properly, because this deep learning trained models will give you very good

accuracies.

Okay, now in count of frequency we have learned about three different types.

One is one hot encoded.

Second one is something called as bag of words.

And the third one is something called as tf IDF.

Right.

So all these techniques we have learnt right.

And we know the advantages and disadvantages.

But here we are focusing more on count of frequency.

Right.

But the major one which is having a better accuracy which is actually and all this techniques at the

end of the day is also converting words into vectors, or it is converting sentence into vectors, right

sentence into vectors.

But we have seen a lot of advantages and disadvantages.

Maximum number of disadvantages are there with respect to all these techniques.

And this all disadvantages are getting solved by this deep learning trained model.

And the trained model is nothing but which is basically called as word two vec.

It's not like we cannot create it from scratch, we can definitely create it from scratch.

But again, you require a huge amount of data and what we are going to do in that.

First of all, we are going to understand in the upcoming videos, uh, what is exactly word two vec

and how it is basically converting a word into vectors and how it is solving all the disadvantage things

that were there in this particular technique.

Everything we are going to discuss, but just understand that what is word two vec?

It is a word embedding technique which will efficiently convert a word into a vectors, which will be

making sure that both this property.

It is expected to have similar in meaning whenever it is converting into a vector space.

Along with that, it will also give you a very good representation of the words right.

Sparsity will not be there and all.

There are many points which I am going to discuss in the upcoming, uh, videos with respect to word

two vec.

Now word two vec are of two types.

One is because the entire deep learning architecture is built on two different types.

One is we basically say C ball, C ball, C ball is nothing but continuous bag of words, super important,

continuous bag of words.

And we are also going to see that how the models gets trained.

But for this you really need to have a prerequisite knowledge of how an Ann works.

What is loss function, what is optimizers.

And all right.

The second technique is something called as skip gram.

Skip gram.

Again this is a different technique.

Uh and again it is a part of word two vec itself.

It is a different type of word two vec.

At the end of the day, we can either use cbow or skip gram to get an efficient conversion of word to

vectors.

Right.

And this is what we are going to see.

We are also going to see some pre-trained models of word two vec, you know, probably created by Google

and it is somewhere around 1.5 GB.

Big model size.

Will try to download it will try to see, we will try to execute it.

But in the upcoming videos what we are going to see is that how word two vec word embedding works,

right?

And how it is making sure that all these disadvantages that are present in this techniques is getting

removed.

Right?

So this is what we are going to discuss, but I hope you got an idea.

At the end of the day, whatever techniques we have discussed till now in converting word into vectors,

it falls under word embeddings, right?

So yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

And in the next video I'm going to discuss about word two vec.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video we are going to cover word two vec.

We have already seen what exactly word two vec is.

It is a deep learning trained model.

And again it is a kind of a word embedding techniques, wherein the focus is to convert word into vectors,

making sure that the meaning of different different words are actually maintained.

Like if there is a similar words, we will be getting vectors that are very near to each other if it

probably find out the difference, and will also be able to see that which all words are completely

opposite based on these vectors.

Okay, so let's discuss about word two vec and I will give you an idea about like what exactly is word

two vec and how the words is getting converted into a vectors.

In the upcoming videos, I will try to show you that how word two vec models are basically prepared

with respect to architecture.

Uh, in in the case of deep learning models.

And for that you really need to have knowledge about an models, right?

If you really need to understand that, how we can train word two vec from scratch.

Okay.

And uh, yeah, let's go ahead and with the uh definition and let's see that what all problem that actually

fixes.

So over here word two vec is a technique for natural language processing published in 2013.

And it was published by Google.

An amazing company already.

You know that.

And they are done some tons of work with respect to NLP.

You know they're doing lot of research.

The word two vec algorithm uses a neural network model.

We'll be discussing about this, how we'll be using it, uh, how it uses a neural network to learn

word association.

Please make make sure that you understand these words.

To learn word association from a large corpus of text.

Once trained, such a model can detect synonym words or suggest additional words for partial sentence,

so it will be able to detect synonyms.

It will be able to detect, uh, opposite words and many more things.

As the name implies, word two vec represents each distinct word with a particular list of number called

as vectors.

So at the end of the day we are converting a word into vectors.

But this vector will have many things.

It will be able to detect synonym words, or it will also be able to suggest additional words for partial

sentence.

Okay, now let's understand what exactly this is.

Now see guys in bag of words TF-IDF.

We have already seen right?

Based on the vocabulary size will either get one zeros, ones or zeros.

And in short we are getting a sparse matrix and TF-IDF.

Also we may get decimals like 0.2 5.6.

Then again zero zeros are there in word two vec.

It will be little bit different.

Now let me talk about how it will be different.

Let's consider that I have a vocabulary okay.

And I have a vocabulary.

Let's say I have my vocabulary.

So these are basically my this many number of unique words I have in my corpus okay.

Unique words I have in my corpus.

Corpus basically means paragraph.

Okay.

Now let's say, uh, the vocabulary words that I specifically have like something like boy, girl.

Okay.

And then we have something like King, Queen.

And if I probably talk about some more words like apple and mango, let's say in my vocabulary, I have

this many words.

Okay.

Now, one very important word I'm going to put up over here, which is called as feature representation.

Feature representation.

Please listen to me very, very carefully.

A very important topic.

Now, each and every word that are present in the vocabulary will be converted into a feature representation.

Now what this exactly means, this basically means that we are going to convert this all words into

a vectors based on some features.

Now what all features can it be right?

Let me give you a very good example about it.

But understand that when we are training a very big word two vec model at that time, you will not be

getting a clear idea about all the features.

But here, just to make this intuition, to make you understand the intuition, lets discuss about this

feature representation.

So in the left hand side what will happen is that let's say that I will be having lot of features like

this.

So I may be having a feature called as gender.

I may be having a feature called as Royal.

I may be having a feature called As age.

I may be having a feature called As Food.

Like this.

I will be having lot of features, and let's say that the total number of features, you know, are

basically 300 dimension.

That basically means I will be having one more nth feature over here and that size of this entire features,

like if I probably count all of this, this will be 300 dimensions.

Let's consider 300 dimension basically means I will be having this 300 features.

Now with respect to all these vocabulary, we are going to represent this word in the form of vector

considering this feature representation.

So this is my entire feature okay.

What I'm actually going to do, I'm going to take up all these words that are present in the vocabulary.

Based on this particular features.

We are going to assign one numerical value okay.

And understand one thing.

This numerical value will be assigned based on the relation of this two words.

That is the vocabulary and this feature representation that we have here I have given you as an example.

But when we are training a very large word two vec model, we will not be able to see this features

entirely.

Right?

If I take an example of Google, you know they have come up with this amazing word two vec model, which

is basically trained in 3 billion words, I guess 3 billion words, which is coming from the news feed.

Right.

And that practical example also try to show you and at the end of the day, you'll be able to see that

each and every word is basically represented by 300 dimension of feature representation.

That basically is every word will be having a 300 dimension.

Uh, vectors.

Okay.

Now this is super important.

What kind of values that I can have over here.

Right.

What kind of values I can have over here.

Now, let's say with respect to boy, which is present in the vocabulary.

Okay.

And is uh, and its relationship with respect to gender, let's say that I am having one minus one over

here.

Let's, let's, let's just consider okay, minus one over here.

Now with respect to girl and gender, the value can be plus one because it is the opposite of boy right

opposite with respect to gender.

If I say boy is there opposite of boy is nothing but girl.

So minus one and one this kind of vectors can come.

Now here you can see with respect to the next word.

Over here we have boy, we have royal.

We obviously know we cannot say right.

We don't have a sentence that oh he's a royal boy.

He can be a royal prince or he can be a royal king.

Right.

So there is no no proper relationship.

So in this particular case, you know, there will be a value like .01.

I'm just giving you as an example.

Right.

Similarly we will also be having with respect to boy and age, let's say that there is not much relation.

So I'm just going to put it as 0.03.

Okay.

Very near to zero now.

Similarly, I can have all these values over here.

And this all values comes through proper trained models like word two vec, word two vec which is trained

by deep learning techniques like an okay.

And I'll show you in the next video how those models are basically trained.

But just understand over here, each and every vocabulary that we are seeing is represented based on

this feature representation.

So that basically means for boy I will be having this vector.

So for boy.

For.

Boy, you can see over here I will be having this specific vector.

Okay.

So this is all vectors will be here.

Okay.

Now similarly with respect to girl.

Now you can see with respect to gender.

If boy is having minus one then this will be plus one right.

Because it is completely opposite with respect to royal.

Again no relationship.

So it will be .02.

Let's say here I'm going to put .02.

Because age with respect to this also no specific relationship right.

So similarly I will be having other values like this.

Now see with respect to King, you know I may have gender like uh, there is a relationship with respect

to gender and King.

So -0.92 will be there with respect to Queen.

It can be plus 0.93 you know.

So here you can see opposite right opposite opposite over here.

Right.

And similarly I can have other vectors like over here Royal and king are related.

Right.

So I can have 0.95 okay.

And over here you can see also royal and Queen can also be a royal right.

So over here probably the value can be 0.96.97.

Very much nearby each other right.

Now understand because of this vectors you know similar words will be will be very very close to each

other.

Because if I try to subtract it, I'll just give you an idea about it.

So right now with respect to age also obviously there will be some relationship between age and King

because we say that old king right with respect to age.

So suppose let's say here I'm having 0.75.

Here I'm having 0.68.

And like this I will be having multiple vectors like this.

Right.

And we can clearly see right over here.

It is.

Now see with respect to Apple, obviously it will have no relationship with respect to gender uh gender.

So I can probably write .0.5 or .01 something.

Right.

With respect to mango.

So it cannot be.

So I'll write just .23.

I'm just saying that okay.

We basically uh, can have some values over here.

If it is not having a relation, it will be very much near to zero like 0.05.

Okay.

I'm just putting some values.

But once we train all these models right, we will be getting this value here.

I'm giving you a crux idea about like how each and every vectors may look like okay, now over here

with respect to Apple and Royal also I'll not be having much relationship.

So let's say I'm putting minus .20 to this will be point plus .02 with respect to age and Apple.

This may have a very good relationship.

Right.

Because uh, let's say if the apple is kept for ten days outside, you know, it may it may, it may

rotten up right?

It may not have the nutritional value.

So this, uh, with respect to age, it may have a direct relationship.

Mango also may it may have a direct relationship.

So we are going to have this vector pretty much similar with respect to food.

Yes.

Apple belongs to a food item.

Right.

So this will probably have a good value.

It may be 0.91.

This is also 0.92 right.

And similarly I'll be having different different vectors.

Right.

So here what we have done is that each and every vocabulary word is represented based on this feature

representation.

Right.

And here the feature representation is not only be 300 dimensions, it can be 100 dimension.

It can be different different dimensions.

Right.

But here I'm just saying showing an example with respect to Google and what will be this features that

will also not be exactly known.

But just consider that I'm just giving you an intuitive example that yes, based on some relationship

with respect to the word, you are able to get this specific vectors.

Now, there are a lot of advantages with respect to this.

You know why I'm saying you?

Because suppose let's say if I do a calculation which is like king minus man plus queen, if I do this

calculation, and this is a famous calculation which is also written in Google research paper, if I

probably do this calculation, the output that I am going to get is something called as woman.

Okay.

P I will definitely get it as human.

Why or why human is not there.

It's okay, so I'll let me just remove it.

Suppose if I say king minus boy plus queen, then the output that I'm going to get C king is this vector

right.

I'm subtracting with boy and then I'm adding it up.

Queen.

At the end of the day you'll be seeing that the girl will be much more related to boy.

So I'm going to get the output as girl here.

I'm just doing the vector calculation.

And this is what kind of relations will be able to get it.

You know, this is what this is an amazing thing.

We are getting this kind of relation just by seeing these vectors, which has been provided by word

two vec.

Again, I'm not going to do the calculation here.

I've just randomly stuffed some values, but in the real word two vec use case.

You'll be seeing that if you do this kind of calculation you're going to get girl.

And this I will show you practically also as we go ahead once we use this Google or Google Word two

vec which is basically trained on 3 billion words, which is quite amazing.

Right?

So let me give you another example.

Let's say here what I'm doing instead of using 300 dimension, I'll represent every word by two dimension.

Let's say I have 0.950.96 man is represented by something like, uh, 0.950.98.

Let's let's represent like this.

Okay.

I'm just giving some values, okay, some meaningful values so that you'll get an idea about it.

Let's say Queen is given as 0.96, let's say because this is the opposite of this.

Right.

And again this can be the similar keyword, uh, similar vocabulary.

And with respect to human, let's say that I'm having something like 0.94 or 0.96, let's say then what

I do is that if we do the calculation of king minus man plus queen, I'm going to get the human right

as a output.

Now what this vectors represent that also you really need to understand is super, super important.

And that is where I'm going to discuss about something called as cosine similarity okay.

Cosine similarity.

Super important topic with respect to understanding these things.

Because if you understand these things and all now see over here king is given by two, two, two vectors

right 0.950 .96.

So obviously I can I can basically construct this into a two dimension.

Let's say that I'm getting king over here.

Okay.

And in order to make you understand let's say Queen is over here okay, a queen can come over anyway.

Let's say man is over here, right?

Man is over here.

If I probably say King with respect to gender, right.

This two is going to be the most nearest word when compared to queen.

Right?

So if how do I calculate the distance between this vector and this vector which is provided in this

form?

All I do is that I try to probably calculate the distance like this.

Okay, I try to find out the angle and for this to find out the distance between two vectors, we use

a distance formula which says it is nothing but one minus cosine similarity.

Now what is cosine similarity?

This is super important.

To understand cosine similarity, I can basically say that cosine similarity is nothing, but cosine

similarity is nothing but the angle between these two vectors.

Let's say the angle between these two vectors.

Let's say I'm just taking as an example it's 45 degree.

Let's let's consider then this is nothing but cos 45 cos 45 is nothing but one by root two.

And probably I think this is approximately equal to 0.7071.

I've done the calculation.

If it is wrong just let me know.

Okay.

But over here then the distance between these two vectors will be nothing but one -0.7071.

Now if I'm calculating the distance it is 0.29.

Let's say.

So if I'm getting this 0.29 distance right I will say that okay.

Almost this particular word are similar.

Let's say if I have two more vectors, if I have two different vectors, one of the vector is basically

over here, one of the vector is over here.

Then the angle between these two is nothing but 90 degree.

In the case of 90 degree my distance will be nothing but one minus cos theta cos theta is nothing but

cost 90 cos 90 is nothing but zero one -0 is one.

So I can definitely say this vector and this vector are completely different because the distance between

them is one.

If the distance is nearer to zero, I will say that they are almost similar vectors.

Now in this case it is 0.29.

I can say that okay, somewhat similar, right?

Let's say if I have one more vector which is in this point only then I can say that this two vectors

are almost same because the angle between them is uh cos zero, cos zero is nothing but one one minus

one, which is nothing but zero.

Right.

Because over here the angle between this two point is nothing but zero, right.

There is no angle at all.

Right.

So if there is no angle then I will be able to find out the distance.

In this case my distance will be nothing but one minus cos zero one minus cos zero is nothing but one

minus one, which is nothing but zero.

Now if the distance is.

Zero.

That basically means this two are same word right now.

So this is super important because recommendation also happens in this way itself.

Now in recommendation let's say I have a movie which is like Avengers.

Let's say Avengers is over here.

Where do you think Iron Man will come?

Iron man will come again, near this or near this?

At this particular point, only right.

Iron Man will be coming and it will be based on different, different feature representation.

Right?

Whether it is a comic movie, whether it is an action movie.

So action, comic, right, or comedy, these all are feature representation.

Try to understand this and movie name is basically my vector.

My vocabulary.

It can be Avengers.

It can be this one.

Right?

So I hope you are getting an idea about how word two vec is basically working.

At the end of the day, we are basically creating a feature representation of every word, okay?

And we are able to find it out.

So yes, this was about word two vec.

Now what we are going to do is that you need to understand that how this feature representation is created

and how this vectors is basically created, how these vectors.

Because here I have randomly written by two gender is minus one boy to girl, girl to gender is plus

one.

Because I said that okay, this may be the opposite one.

Now you'll get an idea that how in an deep neural deep learning neural network, basically a simple

neural network, how this entire word two vec is trained.

And that is what I'm going to discuss in my next video.

Then I'm going to also show you the practical implementation.

So I hope you are able to understand this with respect to this.

Uh, a very good, amazing model developed by Google, a very good architecture for with respect to

this.

And we'll try to solve that in the upcoming video and I'll, I'll give you a clear idea about it.

Okay.

Just the prerequisite is that you really need to know about an loss function, optimizers and all.

So yes, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to word two vec.

Uh, already we know what two vec are basically of two types.

One is cbow which we have already seen previously continuous bag of words and skip gram.

In this video, what we are going to do is that we are going to understand that how word two vec model

is basically created.

What is the deep learning model that we are specifically saying?

You know how the inputs and outputs are there and how the model is basically trained.

One important thing is that you really need to have a prerequisite knowledge about an loss function

and optimizers.

So if you do not have this, I would suggest.

First of all, please make sure that you have some knowledge about this right before you understand

this.

Now with respect to word two vec, one more important thing is that in word two vec we also have a pre-trained

models.

Right now if I talk about a pre-trained model like Google right.

Google has a pre-trained model with respect to word two vec which is trained on three 3 billion words.

And we can also train a model from scratch.

Train a model from scratch.

Okay.

And again, uh, the reason why I'm taking this because you really need to understand that how that

feature representation is basically getting created.

Okay.

Now let me go ahead and let me say is that, uh, uh, let me take a simple corpus and let's say that

first of all, we'll start with cbow.

Okay.

So we are going to discuss about cbow, which is nothing but continuous bag of words and how this model

is basically created.

It is a type of word two vec right.

Continuous bag of words.

Now to solve any problem I will definitely have a data set.

So let's say that this is my corpus.

And remember corpus because all these models you know like word two vec is trained on a huge data set,

huge data set like this particular pre-trained model from Google is basically trained on 3 billion words.

So let's say I have a corpus or a statement or a data set or or a paragraph.

It can be anything.

And for just making you understand, I'm just going to take a simple paragraph.

I'm going to say that okay I neuron I neuron.

Is is I neuron company or neuron company?

Is related to.

Data science.

Let's say I have this particular corpus.

Now remember like this.

In a use case you will be having a bigger corpus.

It can have millions of words.

Right.

But let's say that I'm taking just a simple corpus over here, just a single liner.

Now you're going to understand that how a cbow word two vec is basically created, and how a model is

basically trained with the help of deep learning.

Now, first thing is that whenever we have a corpus, we really need to know what is our input data

and what is our output data.

Because word two vec altogether is a supervised machine learning, right?

So first of all, what we do is that we select a window size.

And I'll talk about this window size and why it is super important.

Let's say that I'm going to select a window size of five.

Now this window size is super important to basically create your input data and output data okay.

Super super important.

Like what should be your input data and what should be your output data so that you can train your model.

Right.

Now this window size five indicates that how many words I need to select initially.

So let's say I am selecting five words.

So here is my five words.

Now from this particular five words I will take the center word.

Center word.

Now understand how I will take up this window size five words and convert into input and output data.

So let's say this is my input data and this is my output data okay.

Now the central element that I've actually taken over here is is right now in the input I will be having

I neuron company.

And then on the right hand side I have related and I have two.

Okay.

Now why why?

You may be thinking that I'm taking the forward and the backward because understand, if I'm taking

this as a central word and this will basically be my output word, okay is okay.

This is is basically my output word.

Now it should be knowing that what all words are in the forward context and what all words are in the

backward context.

So that is the reason we are creating in this particular way.

So that this is output should be knowing about it's forward word and this backward word.

Just to get some idea about the context of that specific sentence.

Now this is the first step.

Now when I took the window size is five, the initial five words, I divided my data set into input

and output.

Perfect.

Now the next step is that I will go ahead and I'll move this window by one step and take the next five

words.

So the next five words over here is nothing but.

So here this is my sentence one.

So sorry.

Input one.

And now this will become my input to.

And here I will be having company.

Okay.

Uh and again from all these five words which is my center word.

So this is basically my center word related right.

So related.

So here I'll write company is uh two and data.

So this is my second input.

And over here the output will basically be related.

Right then.

Similarly I will go to the next step and I will push this windows to one step more.

Okay.

So here now I'll be having my third sentence with respect to my input and output.

And the third sentence again which will be central word.

So this will basically be my central word.

So here you have to okay.

And here I'm going to have is related.

Okay.

And then the right hand side.

Data and science.

Now you may be thinking, Chris, should we only take the window sizes five?

No, you can take any value.

You can take any value.

And why this window size is playing an important role.

I'll just say in some time you can take up any value, but don't take an even number.

Take an odd number so that I will be getting the central element, which I'm taking as an output will

have the correct number of words in the forward context and in the backward context.

Okay, so is related data science is there right now which is a central word over here.

Two.

Right.

So I'm just going to write it as two.

Now this became my input and output.

Now what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to train my model with this.

Very simple right.

I'm going to train my model with this.

Now how the training will basically happen.

Now, one very important thing that you need to understand over here you'll be seeing I neuron company

related to all these inputs and outputs.

So I cannot probably send this text directly.

I need to convert this into some vectors initially to send it in as an input to the neural network also.

So for this, what I'm actually going to do.

First of all, you know that how many number of words I have, how many number of words I have in the

vocabulary I have I neuron I have company I have is related to data science.

Right?

So they are around 1234567.

Right.

Seven words are there.

Now if I probably use one hot encoding technique.

Now see this?

Okay.

This is super important in one hot encoding technique.

If I probably consider I neuron let's consider the first sentence over here I have I neuron and then

I have company.

Then I have related.

And then I have two right.

So for all these words how I'll be giving the one hot code a one hot encoding representation wherever

there will be I neuron, I'm just going to make it as one remaining.

All will be zeros.

So there will be around 123456 zeros.

Similarly when when companies there I'll make this as one and remaining all will be zeros right.

Similarly related related is in the fourth word.

So I'm going to make it as 001000.

And then two is present after this.

So I'm basically going to write it as 0100.

Right.

So this is this is pretty much clear till here.

Right.

So here you can see that I have I have basically done this a simple one hot encoded format.

That basically means if I really want to pass I neuron I need to give this as my vector.

This is what is the understanding.

And this vector is basically given by seven dimensions.

So seven vectors I'm giving it over here right 10000.

If I'm sending company as my next word then this should be the vector.

It should go right then.

If I'm sending related this should be the vector I should go.

So similarly all this particular words will be converted into this particular vector using one hot encoding.

Now let's go to the next step which is super super important okay.

Super super important.

What does Cbow basically mean.

Continuous bag of words okay, this is nothing, but this is a fully connected neural network.

Now you will be able to understand how these models are created.

Fully connected neural network okay.

Now in this fully connected neural network, you will be able to see one very, very important thing.

One is first of all, just understand how many number of inputs should I be giving, right.

Like how many words I will be giving as my input, right?

Since my window size is same, window size is five.

All my inputs are fixed.

I hope that is very much clear right now.

In this particular problem statement you'll be seeing, I'm giving four words in every sentence, so

my input is basically fixed.

Now I neuron when I give my word, I neuron.

Let's say in the first case I give my sentence one.

And this is my sentence one.

When I give I neuron I neuron is represented by seven vectors.

Over here it is represented by this vector.

Then company is basically represented by this vector.

So if I probably see in fully connected layer my first input layer will basically be nothing.

But.

So here you will be able to see this will be my input okay.

And this is super important guys see this.

So this will be my input.

My first input word okay.

And understand I'm giving I'm creating this circle as my inputs.

Okay, I'm just creating this circle as my input.

So if you see 12345677 inputs, I'm giving it right now.

When I give this seven inputs then similarly how many words will be going?

Four words will be going right.

So one word two word.

So this is basically my input layer.

So this layer is nothing but my input layer in a fully connected layer a simple an if I probably consider

an example of an.

So here also how many uh inputs I'll be having 1234567.

Right.

And this is my first word.

Second word, third word, fourth word.

So I will be having four different words over here that will be going.

And each word will be having a dimension of seven vectors 123456, seven.

Right.

I'm not giving this value.

Don't consider that this all are zeros okay?

I'm just saying that these are my input layer.

Input layer input circles okay.

That is how we create it in an end.

Right.

And then probably I have my last one.

So this is my input right.

I'm basically designing the neural network how it will look like when we are training a word two vec.

So these are my four four words.

Understand.

In the first case I'm going to pass my neuron over here.

So let's say I'm going to pass over here I neuron.

This will be my input over here.

This is represented I neuron will be represented by 100000.

Right.

And similarly if I go to the second word that is like company then it will be represented by another

word like this.

Right.

It will be represented by a different vector like 0100000.

Right.

Seven.

It will be 1234567 right now.

Similarly other words will be represented like this okay.

So this becomes my input layer okay.

And every input is basically given by a vector of seven seven dimensions.

So because I'm representing every word based on the vocabulary size using one hot encoding, now this

becomes my input layer.

Now let's go to the middle layer that is called as the hidden layer.

Now in this hidden layer this is super important.

Just pause the video and guess what will be the size?

You know the our window size is how much our window size is basically five, right.

So I'm just going to make this as my window size okay.

So this is my window size.

Now in my window size if you remember how many how many we are having in our window size.

Our window size is nothing but five.

So I will be having 12345.

Right?

Window size is basically five.

So in my hidden layer I'll be having this five vectors okay.

So just understand that with respect to this five our window size will be set over here okay.

Now with respect to the output in output how many values I have I just have one value.

And each word I just have one word in the output.

Right.

And each word is represented by a vector of seven.

Because if I am also considering this is using one hot encoding, I'm going to get this vectors of this

dimension that is seven, right.

So what I will be doing in output I will basically be having.

Are another output layer like this, which will again be having seven different outputs 1234567.

Okay, so now this is how my fully connected neuron will look like.

Neural network will look like.

Now you need to understand one thing over here.

Each and every node, each and every node will be connected to the other node.

Right.

Like this.

Like this.

It will be connected.

Like.

Like how an an will work.

It will be connected like this only, right?

Similarly right now similarly this all will be connected to this also.

So in short, I can basically make a very simple connection like this which will look like this itself.

And this will be entirely connected to this, right?

Understand, all these lines will have some initialized weight.

Initialized weights.

And we need to train these weights.

And this is what it happens in an right.

Similarly this will be connected to this.

This will be connected to this.

This will be connected to this.

Right?

And finally, this will also be connected to this.

Right?

So everything is basically getting connected.

And from the hidden layer this is my hidden layer one HL one.

And this is my output layer right now from this hidden layer it will basically get connected over here.

And this will get connected over here okay.

Now understand one very very important thing okay.

This is super, super important.

Fine.

We are connecting it with the help of loss function.

Will uh will also do forward and backward propagation.

Now let's say we will consider let's let's pass this particular word I neuron company related to.

So I have passed I neuron company.

And here also you will be able to see I'm passing related to very simple okay.

Let me just zoom out a bit okay.

Now once I pass all this things what happens over here with respect to this seven output, I already

know what is my real output is right.

I will be getting some values over here.

Okay, I'll be getting some values.

Okay.

But the real output is what if I consider is is is my third word.

So is is my real output.

So this will basically be represented in this vector format that is 0010000.

Right.

But after training while we are training the model with different different weights, this is my true

output.

This is my Y.

I may also get different y hat right?

I may get some values like 0.25.

I may get some values like 0.33.

Then like this 01000 something like this.

Then what we do, we basically calculate the loss function.

And based on this loss we need to reduce this.

We do the backward propagation right backward propagation.

And we do it unless and until the difference between y and and y hat are minimal okay.

And this process is continuous.

Very simple.

But now you really need to understand one very important thing very very important thing.

Now since this is giving me a specific output okay.

This is basically giving me a specific output.

When I say my my middle layer is basically window size of five.

Window size of five.

That basically means over here in the word two vec.

When I said I will be getting a 300 dimensions over here when I'm using Google Word two vec.

This is all because of this window size.

Okay?

That basically means if my window size is five, I'm going to get the output as five for every word.

That basically means when a word is getting converted into a vector, I am going to get a size of five

vectors, and this will basically be my final output.

Now I hope you are able to understand again.

Let me repeat it.

The reason I have actually selected window size is equal to five, because I want to probably provide

a feature representation with a vector size of five.

Okay, that basically means every word will be converted into a five vector.

Now, when I took an example of Google, which was getting converted into 300 dimension, that basically

means my window size is 300 and more.

The bigger window size, the better the model can basically perform.

Okay, so in this case you will be able to see that over here.

My window size is five.

That basically means if I see from starting right, my matrix for every word will be seven cross five,

that many number of weights will be there.

Then here also I'll be having seven cross five weights here.

Also, I'll be having seven cross five weights because I'm giving seven different vectors here.

Also I'm having seven cross five.

But in this case I will basically be having five cross seven.

Now what does five cross seven basically mean?

When this loss gets reduced?

Then my final vector will look something like this.

This all will get connected to this.

This all will get connected to this.

Let's say it is getting connected to this one.

It is getting connected to this one.

It is getting connected to this one.

So once we have this particular connection, let's say our first word over here is what is our first

word.

If you probably see what is our first word with respect to this particular vectors with vocabulary we'll

be seeing eye neuron.

Right.

This is my vocabulary.

The first word that is basically getting represented over here is I neuron right.

So I neuron will have a output dimension of five vectors because I'm getting this five vectors over

here joined to this.

So this five vectors will be like 0.92.

It can be 0.94.

Based on the training it can be 0.25, it can be 0.36 and it can be 0.45.

And this is based on some feature representation.

So I hope you are able to understand.

And this is how a neuron will be represented.

The second word that we have in the vocabulary that is company right.

This will again get connected to this company.

This will also get connected.

This will also get connected.

This will also get connected.

This will also get and this entire word will be the vector for the company itself and for the company.

We may have a different vector, but again the size will be five dimension because our window size is

five.

And this training of forward and the backward propagation, when the loss is minimal, then only we

will be able to get the vectors and that vector is basically taken, and it will be represented in the

uh format of the feature representation for each and every word.

So I hope you are able to understand like how word two vec actually works with respect to CV or Cbow.

Right?

That is continuous bag of words.

If you don't know about Ann then it will be quite difficult.

But again, understand the loss function, it will keep on reducing.

And finally, whatever vectors you are getting at the last that will be combined and that will be taken

as the first word, then second word and third word like that.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it about Cbow.

Uh, in the next video, I'll be talking about Skip gram, right.

Uh, and then we'll talk about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular word, two vec.

So yes, uh, I will see you all in the next video.

Uh, this was it.

Thank you.

Bye bye.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video we are going to discuss about the second architecture that is Skipgram.

Now already I have actually shown you how does Cbow actually works continuous bag of words.

And I also showed you that how the neural network gets trained right now.

What is the difference between Cbow and skip gram?

What is the difference between the architecture?

It is very simple guys.

Right now just focus.

I'm going to take the same data set over here.

Let's say that I neuron company is related to data science.

I have written over here right.

And with respect to this you can see that I've created my input and output.

Now if I am using skip gram, then the thing that is going to change is that everything will be same.

Let's say that I have taken the window size as this.

So if I probably go ahead and show you now, what will happen is that before the input was this specific

test and the output was this specific test.

Now with the help of skip gram over here, the the initially let's say that if this was input now this

is going to become the input.

And this will basically be the output.

Right.

And this is with respect to window size is equal to five.

Right window size is equal to five.

All the steps will be same.

Only what we are doing is that we are changing the input and we are changing the output.

Before the input was this all text and the output was this.

Now what will happen is that entirely when we are creating this neural network now in the input let's

say that I have this is word related word two word right.

So in the input I'm going to basically have a input layer with seven vectors that will be going.

Why seven.

Because if we probably see this our vectors how many number of uh vocabulary.

What is the vocabulary size?

1234567.

Right.

So initially in the input layer I will be giving a input which will be basically having uh seven vectors

seven dimension vectors.

And then in the middle I will basically be having my window size vectors.

So window size is nothing but 512345.

Just understand this.

These are just nodes okay.

And in the output you can see that I'm having four words right.

So everything that is present with respect to this right.

Similarly this will get constructed over here at this point of time.

So over here in the output layer you'll be able to see that I will be having one word, two word, three

word and the fourth word.

So this is what is the kind of output we will be getting.

And again uh, here it is very much simple because every one will be like seven dimension over here

again.

Right?

So I hope you are able to understand we have just changed the direction with respect to this.

Right.

So this will be my input layer.

So here you can see that we will basically be having a seven cross five matrix with respect to the weights.

Because weights initially be randomly and initialized.

Right.

And then we need to train this right.

And then we will be having with respect to this all, I'll be connecting here to here, here to here.

And this will basically be a five cross seven uh matrix with respect to weights.

And then this will be five cross seven.

Similarly over here you'll be seeing that this will be five cross seven.

And below one will also be a five cross seven.

But in with respect to that, you can see that initially when I give the input is, is will be uh,

the Is vectors will be going over here.

And as you know, that is is the third, uh, third word.

So this will be going like this.

Right.

So 0010000.

So this is the vectors that will be going over here.

And again since my window size is five over here you'll be able to see other vectors that will get initialized

uh randomly.

This all will be connected with weights.

So seven cross five uh weight matrix will be created.

And with respect to this our forward propagation will happen.

And obviously you know that if you probably know and write what all things happens in between the hidden

layer, the input weights is getting multiplied by the weights itself.

And then a bias is added and the activation function is applied on top of it in the output layer, we

basically apply a softmax function softmax function so that we compute it with y and y hat y hat is

the predicted one, Y is the real data.

In this particular case, this is my Y.

Sorry, this is my Y, right?

In the first case y is I neuron.

So I neuron whatever.

Uh whatever things will be there, whatever vectors will be there here you will be initializing it.

Right.

So here I basically apply a softmax function let's say with respect to I neuron my y is nothing but

100000007 zeros.

And then y hat will be computed since we apply a softmax over here.

Right.

So y hat will be something right.

Some values over here.

And then what we do we calculate our loss function.

And we make sure that we keep on doing the forward and the backward propagation unless and until all

the loss function decreases right.

The loss value decreases.

And finally you'll be seeing that whatever is connected right.

This particular word will be shown in the form of five vectors.

This word will be shown in the form of five vectors once the loss is completely minimized.

So same process.

You should definitely know what how the Ann actually works, how the optimizer actually work.

And this was just a brief idea about script gram right now.

How can we improve this or the the basic question is that when should we apply C by C ball.

So the question is when should we apply C ball or skip gram.

Right.

The simple thing is that according to the research right.

Whenever you have a small data set, small corpus, we can definitely go with something like C bar that

is continuous bag of word.

If you have a huge data set, you should definitely go with skip gram.

And that is proven, uh, in many research paper.

So I'm just.

Giving you the direct, um, observation out of it so that you will be able to do this.

Now, let's say if you want to increase Cbow or skip gram, how can you basically do it?

One thing is that you should increase your training data set.

Increase the training data.

That basically means the more the training data, the better the accuracy, right?

Increase the training data.

The second thing is that you can also increase increase the window size.

Window size, which in turn which in turn leads to leads to increase of dimensions.

Increase of vector dimension.

This is super important.

Okay, so here I'm saying how to improve cbow or skip gram.

So this is what you can basically do.

Increase the window size okay.

This is super important.

Increase the window size I'm again going to take this separately or forget it out.

So over here again uh let me write this.

We have to increase.

We can also increase the window size instead of having five I can make this as, uh, 100, you know,

so obviously with the increase in the window size, increase the window size.

If we are increasing the window size, that basically means the vector dimension is also increasing,

right?

The vector dimension is also increasing.

So when we keep on increasing and trying uh, try it, you'll be able to see that we'll be getting better

performance.

So this is also you can basically use you can you can increase it.

Now when we see in the next example right we'll be we will be using a pre-trained model with respect

to Google.

So Google Word two vec right now this is basically trained in 3 billion words I guess it is 3 billion

words 3 billion words.

And it is going to give me a feature representation feature representation of 300 vectors, sorry,

300 dimensions.

That basically means suppose if I have a word cricket.

Okay, since cricket is always there in the news, this 3 billion word is from the Google News, right?

And Google is a very big company guys with them.

This amount of data, it is very much easy.

So what they are going to do is that if we give a word called as cricket, then it is going to basically

convert this into a 300 dimension.

300 dimension vectors.

Okay.

Vectors, this is super important.

300 dimension vectors.

Okay.

I'm just going to write it as 300 dimension vectors.

And this all example I will try to show you, uh, when we use this, what we'll do is that in the upcoming

session we'll try to we'll try to use a pre-trained model also, and we'll try to also make sure that

we train a new data set from scratch with the help of word two vec.

And that we are going to basically do with the Gensim library.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this we will be doing in the next video.

So I hope you have understood both the architecture.

One is Cbow and one is the skip gram.

Only.

The thing that you really need to know is that you need to have the knowledge of an or a fully connected

layer neural network.

If you know that, it will be very easy to understand.

So, yes, uh, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video where we discuss about how to implement word two vec.

Okay, so yes, I will see you all in the next video.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to word two vec.

In this video we are going to discuss about the advantages of word two vec.

Now already from our previous techniques like Bag of words TF-IDF, we have already seen that.

What were the main problems?

See, initially before we used to get a sparse matrix, right?

Sparse matrix basically means we used to get lot of zeros and ones or decimals or zeros.

Uh, this kind of matrix we used to get right.

And obviously what is the problem with sparse sparse matrix.

It leads to overfitting.

But now with the help of word two vec you are actually being able to get a dense matrix.

Right.

So now you will be able to get a dense matrix.

And this is only possible because of word two vec.

That basically means you will not have many zeros or ones you know.

So this was the first thing.

First amazing advantage with respect to word two vec.

And again if you have a dense matrix, uh, again machine learning models will be able to train in a

better way.

Right.

Coming to the second point right.

Because we have already seen with respect to every word, we are getting a separate, uh, dimension

of vectors.

And we are also able to find out the similar vectors also.

Now the second thing is that based on the similar vectors, before, semantic information was not getting

captured.

Now semantic information is getting captured, right?

Info is getting captured.

Now you will be able to find out the similar words with the vectors itself, comparing the vectors itself.

So similar.

Uh, semantic info is getting captured now right before with the help of techniques like Bag of Words

or TF-IDF, there were some amount of semantic information getting captured, but not much.

That basically means if you really want to find out a word, let's say there is a word like honest,

right?

And you want to find out a similar word, or you want to find out how similar this specific word is,

so that you will be able to do with the help of word two vec.

Now, honest and good, I think it is almost a similar word.

Will also be able to find out the cosine similarity with respect to this.

And that is what I will be probably showing you as we go ahead.

You know, uh, by seeing the practicals of word two vec by using pre-trained models and again from

scratch also we'll try to see it.

So coming to the third one over here.

Now you don't have to actually worry about vectors becoming bigger because before with the help of bag

of Words and uh TF-IDF we are completely dependent on the vocabulary size, right?

Vocabulary size.

But now we are not dependent on the vocabulary size.

So over here you will be having a fixed set of dimensions.

Fixed set of dimensions.

Now if I probably take an example of Google pre-trained word two vec right.

Google word two vec pre-trained word two vec.

There you'll be able to see that we'll be having only 300 dimensions.

And it has been trained in huge data.

Huge, huge huge data.

So obviously uh, this again solves a very big issue.

Before again, we used to get a very like if the vocabulary size is huge, that many number of vectors

we used to get.

Now no fixed set of dimensions with respect to vectors, we are able to get it.

Okay.

So this is also a very important thing coming to the next one which is called as out of vocabulary.

Now out of vocabulary, there is hardly any scenario that you will be able to see that some words may

be outside the dictionary or outside the corpus itself.

Uh, with respect to out of vocabulary is also solved.

Why?

Because now we are capturing all this information like semantic info.

And.

All right, we are also making sure that because we represent every word with some feature representation.

Right.

So that is also uh, out of vocabulary is also solved with respect to this.

So these are some of the advantages of word two vec.

And again right, it will definitely perform well uh, when compared to the bag of words or TF-IDF model.

But yes, uh, this is a good, uh, you know, good way.

Basically, we'll think of I'll also show you that how we can actually solve a text classification with

the help of word two vec and all as we go ahead.

Right.

So this was, in short, the advantages of word two vec.

In our next topic I'm just going to show I'll try to show you one more very important topic which is

called as average word two vec.

Super important topic because if you really want to solve any text classification problem statement,

we really need to also use average word two vec.

And that is what we are going to see in the next video.

So yes, uh, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to NLP.

And in this video we are going to discuss about average word two vec a super important topic again because

uh, just by with the help of word two vec, you'll not be able to solve uh, the classification problem.

You really need to perform something called as average word two vec.

Let's take a simple example and I'll try to show you, uh, right now we'll just discuss with respect

to theoretical intuition.

But as we go ahead uh, we'll be discussing about practical part also and how we can implement average

word two vec also.

So uh, over here I have my text data.

The food is good and output is one zero and one.

And you can see all this are my documents.

Now as you know that with the help of word two vec, what we do is that we take every word and we convert

that into vectors.

Let's say that I'm using a Google pre-trained model okay I'm using a Google pre-trained word two vec

model.

Pre-trained.

Word two vec model.

Now in this Google pre-trained word two vec model, what I'm actually doing is that what I'm actually

doing is that over here you can definitely see that okay.

So this if this is my sentence the food is good right.

Now the will get converted into some vectors okay.

And uh, if when I've already shown you that with respect to feature representation, we will be getting

a vector of 300 dimensions.

So let's say this is the vector of 300 dimensions okay.

So this the will get converted into 300 dimensions with respect to this okay though will be there.

Now coming to the next word that is food right.

Food will also get converted into 300 dimensions.

And that is what happens with respect to this word two vec right.

Every word that is present over here like is will also get uh will also get.

Formed in 300 dimensions.

And here also.

All these words will get converted into vectors with respect to this many number of dimensions.

Okay, perfect.

So till here, I think, uh, your superbly clear because we have already discussed about all these

things, uh, in our previous session.

But now you need to understand.

One thing is that when we have this kind of sentences and if we are basically writing this many number

of dimensions, basically this many number of vectors are there, let's say this is my 300 dimension

vector, which is basically getting converted for the foot.

And this in the real world scenario, I should be converting this entire sentence into a vectors, right?

But here you can see I'm getting vectors for the also 300 300 vectors for foot.

I am getting separately 300 vectors for is.

I am getting 300 vectors, and for good I am getting 300 vectors, right 300 dimension vectors.

Now this is the problem at the end of the day for this entire sentence.

Let's say if I am getting a 300 dimension for this entire sentence, let's say this is my sentence one

or document one.

My main aim should be that I should be getting only one 300 dimension with respect to this, so that

I can take this as a input.

And this will basically be my output.

And I can basically train my model.

Right.

But here you can see that since we are applying word two vec, every every word is basically getting

converted into a separate 300 dimension vectors.

So in order to solve this, what we do is that we take all these vectors.

We take all these vectors and we find the average of it.

Once we find the average of it, then we try to write that particular vector over here for this entire

sentence, and then this vector will be considered for this entire document or sentence.

Similarly, the second vector also is there.

We will go ahead and calculate the average of it and we'll write it over here.

Similarly like this.

Every vector will basically happen right.

For every every vector.

So every all this all the word vectors, you know averaging is basically happening.

And that is the reason we say average word two vec okay.

And why this will work.

Because see at the end of the day you'll be seeing that.

We just require the vectors for this entire sentence.

And right now we have for every word a separate 300 dimensional vectors.

So if you are trying to take out the average of all this particular vector, and if we try to write

down as one vector and this will also be the length will obviously be 300 itself.

Right.

This will be 300 dimension itself.

But now with respect to this particular vector I will be having my output.

I can pass it through my model and get trained with respect to this.

So at the end of the day, what happens is that if I am having a sentence like this, after applying

average word two vec, I'm just going to get, let's say if I'm using the pre-trained model, I'm going

to get a 300 dimension vectors, which will be all this particular average of all this particular vectors

itself.

And all this will be over here.

And I will be getting my output variable, which is already over here.

And similarly this will happen for the second word and document.

Third document also.

So average word two vec basically says that okay, we are not doing anything or whatever vector is is

getting converted.

I'm just trying to average out each and every vector with respect to that.

Right.

So over here, let's say the is having 300 dimension vector food is having 300 dimension vector is is

having 300.

God is having trained for every line by line, all the vectors.

I'm just averaging that out and I'm actually finding out a value and why we are doing this, because

we really want only one specific set of vectors for the entire sentence.

Right.

So this is what average word two vec is basically.

And for any text classification we basically need to solve through this specific way.

Only now in the upcoming tutorials, what I am actually going to show is that I'm going to basically

use a library which is called as Gensim.

Okay.

And there is also a library separately which is called as glove.

But if you probably understand Gensim, you will be able to do everything.

So first of all, we will go ahead and we will see with respect to a pre-trained Google Word two vec.

And then in the second instance, what we are going to do is that we are going to train a word two vec

from scratch, from scratch, that basically will take a data set and will try to train a word two vec

model.

And again with the help of Gensim library, we will be doing it.

So I hope you got an idea about average word two vec at the end.

Why we are doing this?

Because for the entire sentence we want some vectors.

And since we are combining all this particular word, that semantic information will also be maintained,

right?

So yes, I will see you all in the next video.Hello guys.

So in this video we are going to basically see the word two vec practical implementation I really want

to show you some Google pre-trained models and basically give you an idea like how word two vec creates

a vector, right?

So for this tutorial I'm going to use a library which is called as Gensim.

So let's go ahead and let's install this particular library.

So you just need to write pip install Gensim.

So here you can see that requirement is already satisfied.

And uh, what I am actually going to do is that I'm going to import this import Gensim.

And from Gensim dot model I'm going to import word two vec and keyed vectors okay.

And I'll talk about this.

Why this two libraries are specifically required.

Now one very important thing for this as I said that to show you the practical implementation of word

two vec here, I'm going to take a Google pre-trained model.

In the upcoming video, I will try to show you a different model which can be trained from scratch.

But here I'm going to show you a Google Word two vec pre-trained model and what this particular model

is all about.

So I'm basically taking a word two vec Google news 300 okay.

And uh, this is basically a pre-trained vector trained on Google News data set about 100 billion words.

The model contains 300 dimensional vectors for 3 million words and phrases, right?

This phrases were obtained using a sample data driven approach and distributed representation of this

and all.

All the research paper and everything is basically given over here.

Okay, so this same model we are going to use and we are going to see that how it can easily create

a vectors whenever we give any kind of words.

So in Gensim you know you have something called as API right.

So there is a library called as API.

So you just need to right import Gensim dot downloader as API.

And you just need to write API dot load and basically the model name.

Right.

So the model name is nothing but word two vec Google news uh dot 300 okay.

Now once you do this, all you have to do is that when you provide any word inside this w v variable,

which is nothing, but this is a instance of this specific model.

It will try to give you the vector.

I'm not going to execute this line of code because I've already done it because the model size is 1662.8

MB, right?

So it will probably take some time for you all to download.

So I have already downloaded this so that I can record the video directly.

You can just go ahead and download it.

Now let me go and see that how the King vector look like okay.

So this is basically the king uh, vectors, how the word is basically converted into vectors and the

dimensions that you will be seeing.

Right.

How many vectors are there.

As said from here.

Right.

We have 300 dimensions.

So this is what we are getting.

This entire vectors you'll be able to see will be having 300 dimensions.

So if I probably use this vector underscore king dot shape.

Right.

So if I execute this here you will be able to see 300 dimensions.

Right.

So with respect to this you use any kind of word you will be able to get some kind of vectors.

Now let me give you some of the example okay.

Suppose I make over here.

And uh for this particular vector what all things I use, I use this w v variable which is a word two

vec object.

Right.

All I have to do, I have to give this and give any word of your choice.

Let's say I want to give cricket.

Right.

So if I give probably cricket you'll be able to see that the vector is automatically generated.

So here is again the vector which you are basically getting with respect to this particular shape.

That is 300 dimension.

Now this w v this w v variable right.

Which is a word vector.

It also has some of the functions you can actually use something called as most underscore similar.

Now let's say that I have given this most underscore similar.

I'm saying that from uh, if I'm giving this cricket word right, which is the most similar word present

in this entire corpus.

Right.

And I'm actually going to use the same word, two vec object, and I'm going to find out all the words.

So if I execute this here you'll be able to see the most similar with respect to cricket.

You know, it will first of all try to convert into a vector.

And then it will probably check whether that vector is being able to see any similar kind of words or

not.

So these are all the words that is similar to cricket in that specific corpus.

So you have cricketing.

It is having like .83 similarity point 83% similarity.

Then cricket is 81% similarity.

Then you have test cricket.

Here you can see 80% similarity 20 cricket right.

You have 80% similarity.

Then you have cricket, then you have cricketer.

All these things are you know, they are showing some kind of similarities with respect to this Google

News feed right now.

Similarly, if I really want to find out which is the most similar for word with respect to happy,

you will also be able to see I'll be having words like glad, pleased, ecstatic, overjoyed, thrilled,

satisfied, proud, delighted and understand that these all are similar words when I compare to happy,

right?

So it is also being able to say that, okay, these are the similar words when compared to the happy

word.

And they are also being able to show with respect to how much distance.

And I've already shown you how this distance is basically calculated.

Right.

So we have a concept of cosine similarity and all.

Similarly I can also provide two two words.

And I can basically say that okay how much this two word are basically similar.

So if I probably execute this here you'll be able to see w v dot similarity I'm getting.

Hockey and sports are somewhere around 53% similar right now.

This is very interesting okay I'm going to take the vector off King.

And I'm going to subtract with the vector of man.

And I'm going to add the vector of omen.

Now let's see what will be the kind of output vectors that I'll be getting.

Okay.

So once I do this in short what I'm doing I'm subtracting king minus man plus woman.

And obviously the answer should be queen.

But I really want to prove you through the vectors itself, whether we are able to get the queen or

not.

So here I'm going to execute this.

I'll got I got my vector.

So this is my entire vector.

So this is my entire vector.

And again this vector is of 300 dimensions okay.

So this is my entire vector.

Now what I'm going to do I'm going to use w v dot most underscore similar.

And I'm just going to pass this entire vector over here.

So once I execute this here you'll be able to see that C king is the first.

Obviously uh king should be the most similar vector.

But here I'm getting queen monarch Princess Crown prince Prince Prince.

Sorry King Sultan Queen resort.

But here you can see that the most similar word after king is queen.

So the kind of vector we are getting after doing all this particular subtraction matches matches more

towards the vector with respect to queen.

Right?

And this is what we are able to get with the help of word two vec.

Try to use this guys.

This is an amazing model.

Altogether you'll be able to see uh, that you can actually use this model itself.

You know you can actually use word two vec Google News 300, which will be able to solve many problem

of yours.

And this is just a brief idea about a pre-trained model.

You know how a word two vec pre-trained model looks like.

You can also take your own text and train it from scratch.

But again, there is a different process for altogether.

And this entire thing I've executed in Google Colab because the model size is quite huge.

Okay.

Uh, so in the upcoming videos, what I'm actually going to do, I'm also going to show you what to

vec technique by using Gensim where you can train the model from scratch.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it for, for this particular video.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.


Transcript
Hello all.

So guys, we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

And this is our first classification project that we are basically going to do with the help of NLTK

and with all the techniques that we have already learned, right, like Bag of Words, TF-IDF and all.

And we'll also like after converting the word into vectors or sentences into vectors, we are also going

to train with the model.

So what all things we are going to do over here, let me just give you a brief idea about it so that

everybody will be in the same page.

So here uh, we are basically going to apply bag of words, uh, TF-IDF.

And then we are basically going to apply a machine learning algorithm to do the classification of the

spam and ham.

Right.

So all these things we are going to do and remember the data set is same.

And I'll be showing more example with respect to different different data sets also.

And there will be also many assignments that will be given to you so that you can also practice.

So over here, uh, you can see that uh, I'm having this particular data set that is called as spam

classifier, spam collection and all.

So what I'm actually going to do over here is that I'm just going to give that same path spam classifier,

SMS spam collection.

And this is the file that I have.

And this is all things I have already repeated.

Again I'm repeating it over here.

So these are my entire messages.

You can see I have label and messages over here.

So in label you have ham and spam.

Whereas in message this is basically your email body, right?

We really need to predict that which email text actually is a ham or a spam.

Now initially we have already shown you that what all things we will do, we'll do data cleaning and

pre-processing, and for that we require regular expression and NLTK and Stopwords stopwords.

We really need to remove because some of the words will not play a very important role.

Right.

So this is already downloaded then I hope everybody knows what is porter stemmer.

Porter stemmer is basically used for the bag of words itself.

So I'm just going to execute this.

And this is all the repeated code which have already taught.

Right.

And this is the entire cleaning process of the text, or apart from small A to Z and capital A to Z.

I'm removing all the special characters by a blank.

Right.

And this I'm applying to every messages over here.

I'm lowering the messages and then I'm splitting it, and then I'm applying stopwords.

If the word is not present in the stop word, then only I have to do the stem.

And then finally I'm joining all the reviews and it will be available in my corpus.

So this things are already we have done it right.

But after this, what we are going to do is that we are going to apply a machine learning algorithm

and the same steps.

I will also try to show you with the help of a TF IDF.

So this will take some time based on the size of the text.

And let's say if your data set is quite huge, I would suggest try to do it in cloud format or cloud

in the cloud itself, like Google Colab.

Is there as an example?

Or if you have some virtual machines that also you can basically use?

Now this is my corpus.

So entire corpus is basically present over here.

Perfect.

Now let's go ahead and create the bag of words for creating the bag of words.

I just need to import from sklearn dot feature extraction dot text import count vectorizer.

And over here with respect to the count Vectorizer, I'm saying that let's take the maximum features

to 2500.

And here I also want to make sure that I give my n gram range from one comma two, so that I take a

combination of two two words.

Okay, so, uh, this will probably help us to improve the accuracy and all, but I'm just trying this

things right over here.

Now this is my count Vectorizer and I will be doing CV dot fit underscore transform corpus and I'll

store that in my x.

Okay.

So this has got executed.

And this is basically my x okay.

X, and probably if you want to see the vocabulary.

So you can basically write CV dot vocabulary also.

And here you'll be able to see the vocabulary.

And wherever there are two words, that index will also be there within that 2500 words.

Perfect.

So till here, what we have done is that we have focused more on the independent feature.

If I say X, this is basically my independent feature.

Right.

So this is my independent features.

Now whenever we try to solve a machine learning problem statement, we also need to focus on the output

features or the dependent feature.

So dependent feature or the output feature.

We already know what it is, right?

It is basically our label text.

Right.

So this label.

So what we are basically going to do is that I am going to take this label.

And right now this is still in categories.

I'll convert this into zeros or ones or ones or zeros okay.

So let's go ahead and let's see how to convert it.

So here I'm just going to write y y I'm just putting it as a variable y.

It is equal to get underscore dummies.

And in get underscore dummies I'm just going to write messages.

And off.

Label.

Right.

So all these things will basically be there.

And, uh, here you'll be able to see once I execute it, we'll be seeing if there are two labels that

I'm actually going to get zero as one column of first as another column.

So here you can see ham and spam.

These are basically two categories.

Wherever there is a ham I'll have one.

Wherever there is a spam I'll have zero.

Now, as you know that either of these two column can be used as a output feature.

Now let's just consider ham over here.

Right?

Wherever ham is present, it will be one.

Wherever spam is present, that will be zero.

So here what I'm going to do is that I'm going to basically write y dot I lock.

And I'm just going to write this, uh, colon comma one.

And let me just go ahead and take this all values.

Okay.

So, in short, what I'm doing is that, uh, I'm just probably picking up this particular column wherever

spam is.

Zero.

Uh, wherever, uh, basically wherever spam is there, that will be zero.

And wherever ham is there, that will be one.

Or I can also go ahead and basically take zero column value.

So if I probably execute it.

So I'm going to just take the ham value over here.

Right.

And this I'm storing it in my y variable.

So I have my independent features.

The independent features are nothing but this x values all the x values.

And I have my dependent feature that is my y value.

Perfect.

Now the next step that we specifically do in machine learning is basically our train test split.

So here I'm just going to say train test split okay.

And uh in this particular train split split what I'm doing I'm saying writing from sklearn dot model

selection import.

Train test split.

Okay.

And finally I'll be having X train.

X test.

Whiteway.

Mm comma y test.

Okay.

And then I will basically be showing train test split with x comma y comma.

I'll just put my test size.

Okay.

And let's say the test size is just .20.

That is 20%.

And I'll just execute with any random state.

That is not a problem.

So I'm getting an error.

Let's see uh what is the error.

So test size I have to write like this.

Perfect.

So now I have my X train.

I have my y train x test and y test.

Understand why we are doing this train and test split is that my model will basically be trained with

the training data set.

So Xtrain and Ytrain.

I'm going to take as my independent and dependent features and to verify how my model is basically performing,

I'll just use the test data set.

Okay.

Now the kind of algorithm that I'm basically going to apply over here is that I'll say from sklearn

dot model selection, I'm just going to import one.

Possibly I'll not use this one.

So let me just go ahead and import nay bias, which works very well with the sparse matrix data.

Right?

I'm just basically going to use multinomial naive bias.

And I'm just going to create a variable.

Okay.

So the variable will be spam detect model.

Okay.

So this will be my spam detect model.

And here I'm just going to initialize multinomial naive bias.

Along with that I'm also going to fit with my x train comma y train.

I can separately write this in the next line, but I just want to perform it here itself so that it

will become easy.

I don't have to write much more line.

So this is my model over here.

Spam detect model.

So this is the multinomial Naive Bayes model.

And it has been already trained on X train and by train.

Okay.

Now all I have to do is that do the prediction for my X test data and try to compare my predicted output

along with the truth output, which is basically present in the whitest.

Okay.

So here I will write dot predict.

And when I predict on my X test, this is how I will get the output.

Either I'll be getting ones and zeros.

This I will save it in y underscore pred okay, now in order to compare y test and y underscore pred,

we are going to use some of the performance metrics.

Right.

So I'll write from sklearn dot metrics import.

Accuracy.

Score, comma.

Classification report.

Okay.

Now, uh, one more thing that if I probably try to see.

Right.

If I write y dot unique, let's see whether unique will work or not.

Okay.

It does not have a unique.

If I say y dot shape.

So it is basically having 5572 records.

Okay.

So, uh, let me do one thing.

Let me just use this classification report and accuracy score to just see that how my model is giving

my accuracy score.

And here I'm just going to give my y test comma y pred I'm going to compare this right.

So this is basically my accuracy score which I'm actually getting somewhere around 98% which is good

okay.

Just to verify because we may also have an imbalanced data set.

So we'll also try to verify with the help of classification report by seeing precision recall and all.

If we see that there is a huge fluctuation then definitely there is a problem with respect to imbalanced

dataset, but I have already checked it beforehand.

It is not an imbalanced data set.

So I will say from sklearn dot metrics.

Import.

Classification report.

Okay.

And I'm just going to print this classification report with my Y test and Ypred.

I'm basically comparing the prediction with respect to the new data.

So here you can see that I'm getting somewhere around 9694, 98, which is good enough, which is a

good one with respect to precision.

Also, it is almost in the same stage and all the accuracy looks pretty much good.

So we feel that yes, this model can definitely play an amazing role or altogether.

Right?

So, uh, I hope you have seen that how we were able to train this entire model with the help of, uh,

with, with the help of a machine learning algorithm.

And we are able to see this particular accuracy.

Right.

So, yes, uh, this was it.

Uh, in the next video, we are basically going to solve the same problem with the help of word two

vec and average word two vec.

And we are going to train this entire model from scratch okay.

So this is just to give you an idea until they are, uh, some end to end projects also going to come

up where we'll focus on deploying the project in some kind of clouds.

Okay.

So yes, I hope you like this.

Just, uh, you can take up any dataset, but anyhow, I'll be giving you the assignments, uh, what

all datasets you need to focus on.

But you can take up any dataset and just try to do it.

And, uh, yes, this was it.

Uh, from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we're going to continue our discussion with respect to spam ham classification.

Now in our previous video we have already done Bag of Words and we have applied machine learning algorithms.

Right.

So in this video what we are going to do for the same project, we are also going to apply a TF-IDF

model and then apply a machine learning algorithm.

So let's go ahead without wasting any time.

And let's see that uh, already we have seen all these things.

You know, uh, we have basically created a bag of words.

We have implemented this, we have seen the vocabulary.

Then we got the output feature, and then we did the train test split.

And then finally we trained the model with the multinomial naive bias algorithm.

And then finally we did the prediction for the test data.

And finally we have the accuracy score.

And over here we have also seen the classification report.

Now let's go ahead and create the TF IDF model.

Create the TF IDF model.

And with the help of this we are basically going to create the entire thing.

Okay.

Um, so basically we are going to create the model which will be able to train this tf IDF itself.

Okay.

So first of all, as you know that in order to create the TF IDF model, we just need to import what.

So again this is all repeated things.

So I'm just trying to show you with the help of some project.

So I'm basically going to use feature extraction dot text import.

Tfidfvectorizer.

Okay.

And then I'm just going to write TV is equal to Tfidfvectorizer.

And here also I'm going to make sure that I use max features as 2500.

Okay.

And say 2500 maximum features basically means what the the best the maximum number of features that

are having the, uh, maximum frequency.

Right.

The top 2500 words are having the maximum frequency.

And I can also take the n gram range.

And obviously that is a hyper parameter.

You can play with it.

Okay I'll just do one comma two.

And then finally this will be my independent feature now.

So here I will write TV Dot Fit Transform on my corpus.

And I'll convert this into two array.

Right.

The same thing like how we did it over there.

And this is finally my x value.

So here you'll be able to see the x value itself and some or the other way you'll be seeing some values

in decimals.

So here you can see 0.344.

And there are many many variables which you will be able to see.

Okay.

And if you probably want to see TV dot vocabulary underscore you'll be able to see over here also.

Right.

All the vocabulary is basically there.

Perfect.

Now again uh with respect to this x I'm just going to again do a train test split like this okay 20%

I'll be taking in the test data and I'm just going to execute this.

And this will create my new X train and test data.

And again uh, the same code basically to import the multinomial name bias and train it with my xtrain

and ytrain.

And here I'm just going to write spam.

TF-IDF model okay.

Since we are going to use this.

And finally we can do the predictions.

And the predictions will be using the same code that is uh, what we have actually earlier done it.

Right.

So instead of writing spam detect model, I'm just going to write spam TF-IDF model on X test.

Perfect.

And then finally I'm going to get my accuracy score with respect to this.

So it is coming somewhere around 97% with the help of TF-IDF.

And again, uh, if I probably try to see with respect to classification report, I'm actually getting

a good it is somewhere around similar kind of thing right here.

Precision is getting decreased to 84.

Uh, but almost if I see as an weighted average it is coming as 98%.

Right.

Very simple.

With the help of tf IDF, again with the help of tf IDF, one thing, uh, that, uh, I will, uh,

probably see over here is that you can also play with different different parameters with respect to

tf, IDF also.

Right.

And one more thing, guys.

Uh, here I have actually performed, uh, you know, I have actually performed only pH dot stem.

You can also perform lemmatization.

It is up to you.

And, uh, try to do it.

Uh, this will be a task that will be given to you itself.

You can actually do it with the help of Lemmatizer and just let me know how much accuracy you are able

to get it right.

So yes.

Uh, in this video we have focused on showing you the implementation with respect to TF IDF model and

training, a model Ma machine learning model like multinomial naive bias with respect to that same data.

And finally, you'll be able to see all the accuracy that we are getting.

So in the next video we are going to do the same project with the help of word two vec also.

Uh, yeah, this was it.

I will see you all in the next video.

Hello all, we are going to continue a discussion with respect to natural language processing and in

my previous video, we have already seen how we can actually perform spam classification with the help

of Bag of Words and TF-IDF.

And this is the entire materials that you will be able to see.

You know, we we basically applied a bag of words with respect to Countvectorizer.

Then we got all the vectors over here with respect to the vocabulary.

Then I got the output feature.

Then we did the train test split.

Now this is super important.

After applying a bag of words we did train test split and then we further saw the accuracy and all.

And with respect to the classification metrics also we got here.

Similarly we did the TF-IDF model, we got the vectors.

And finally we applied all the train test split and we got the accuracy.

Now one super important thing, super super important thing about some of the very important best practices.

And I will tell you guys, uh, deliberately, uh, you know, I have made some mistakes and that mistakes

needed you needed to definitely know.

So I have not told in a previous video.

So let me tell you what mistake that we did in the first step usually.

Right.

And this is this is super important for any machine learning algorithm.

First of all, we focused on doing pre-processing and cleaning right of the text data.

Right.

And we also see this as feature engineering.

Right.

This process is called as feature engineering.

In the second step, what we did with the help of Bag of Words and tf IDF, I converted.

We converted all the sentences into vectors.

Right?

This is what we did, right?

We converted all the sentences into vectors.

Right now this is the second step that we specifically did.

Coming to the third step after this, what did we do?

We did train test split okay.

And finally on the fourth step we basically trained our model right.

Trained our model, trained our models.

Now this is what we did in the previous steps.

And deliberately I have done this because there is some major, major problem between this second step

and third step.

Now what is the problem?

Understand pre-processing and cleaning is usually done for all the data set itself.

But when we say bag of words and TF-IDF now this is super important bag of words.

And TF-IDF is a concept wherein we convert a sentences into vectors.

Right now this is done on the entire data set.

And then we do the train test split.

And then we apply the model.

Basically the model trainings right over here in the second and third step.

Just take a pause and just think what mistake did we do?

The real thing should be that first of all we should do train test split.

Okay.

So I'm just going to make this point.

First of all we need to do the train test split.

And afterwards we should apply bag of words or tf IDF to convert our sentence into vectors.

Now you need to understand why we are specifically doing this because understand when the model is getting.

If I talk about training and test data, training data is only used for training the models, whereas

test data is used to evaluate the models itself, the machine learning models.

And by interchanging this step, we are making sure that the model has no bit of information regarding

the test data.

If we do it in the reverse order, wherein we focus first on doing TF and then IDF, TF or IDF, and

then doing the train test split.

What will happen in the train test split?

You know, the train and the test data will be almost similar, right?

So we should try to invert this particular step.

The second step should be train test split.

And then we should try to apply bag of words.

And by doing this we are actually preventing data leakage.

Super interview question preventing data leakage.

That basically means just imagine like you are going to write the exam right in the exam.

You should not be.

You should not even get a hint of the question paper.

What questions are going to come right.

You should just prepare with respect to all the syllabus that you have.

So your syllabus that is present is your training data right.

And the test data is whatever question paper is going to come in the uh exam.

Right.

So that is what.

So this particular concept you really need to look after it right now.

What I will do I will reverse this step.

Okay.

And this is the best practice that we should follow.

Guys, I have deliberately, deliberately not performed this because you should know this.

Right.

And I'm making a dedicated video just to make you understand what mistake we made.

So here everything is fine.

So here you can see I got corpus.

So till here the all the cleaning process is there.

Now before this, uh, bag of words.

Now what I'm actually going to do before applying bag of words.

I'm just going to perform this train test split.

So here I will perform the train test split.

Now instead of giving X I will give corpus because that is my input data okay corpus and I will apply

this right.

So I have applied the train test split over here with respect to the corpus.

And I've given corpus.

Why will be same test size is 20% okay.

Because before only we have basic.

Selected the Y variable.

Let's see where is the y variable.

Oh okay y variable is somewhere here okay.

So it's okay.

Uh I'm just going to copy this.

Paste it over here.

So I'm just going to.

Control C and before itself before this I will have my Y variable.

So let me just execute this.

And this is what I'm getting okay.

Now see this.

This is super important because after doing train test split now we'll apply the bag of words model.

Now bag of word obviously will initialize with max features.

This is fine okay.

Now with respect to x.

Now see this.

Now I don't have x I have x train x test okay.

Now first of all I will apply x train and I will say CV dot fit underscore core fist fit underscore

transform on my on my training data.

So that basically means if I probably see right now also my X train data, what will be my X train data

before this.

If you see over here, my X train data is still having text, right.

So these are all the text it is having.

If I probably try to see what is the length of my X train data, you will be able to see that I'm getting

this much 4457.

And similarly if I go and see my what is my length of y, I'm also going to sorry y y underscore train.

You'll also be able to see that I'm actually getting how much 4457.

Right.

So this is my train.

This is my training data.

Right.

And I'm going to train this particular data with my model.

Right.

So since in my X train still I have text I need to convert that into vectors.

Now I'll try to apply bag of words right.

So I will say fit underscore transform on my X train.

And I'll convert that into an array.

But with respect to X test what you will do with respect to X test.

This is super important.

Instead of writing fit underscore transform, I will go ahead and write transform on my X test data.

And finally I'll convert this into array.

Okay, now see I did not perform fit underscore transform here right I just performed transform.

So whatever techniques is basically used or whatever vocabulary is basically created with the X train

data itself.

We are going to use that same technique for the test data, even though some words are missing.

So now in this way, I'm making sure that my training data and my test data are not at all similar.

It is at least something different because in the X test data I may have something different, right?

And this is the simple change that you basically have to do.

And once we do this, what we are basically doing in the next step is that I'm actually converting this

into my X train right now.

I'm basically converting this into my X train.

So this is what is my X train.

Looks like all my data points is over here.

Now with respect to vocabulary.

Also you can check it out.

I am having all this particular vocabulary now remaining.

All are very simple.

Let me just delete this.

Let me just delete this because we don't require anything as such.

And this is my y dot shape.

It's fine.

I'm just going to remove this I don't want it now.

I don't have to do all this things because I have already done the train test split.

Now go ahead and apply your multinomial naive bias and we will try to find out the accuracy metrics.

And then finally we will do this right.

So here you can see that I'm getting 98%.

And again this is also a very good 98%.

Now with respect to the TF-IDF model.

Also we'll do the same thing.

First of all we really need to perform the train test split okay.

So okay so what we are going to do I'm just going to copy and paste the same thing over here.

So this is my output and this is my train test split.

And I will again use the same corpus over here okay.

Done.

Very simple.

Now I'm doing fit underscore transform on my X train X train.

And this will basically be not my corpus.

It will be my X train data.

Understand this guys what are the changes specifically I am making.

This is super important to understand.

And then X test where I'm writing CV dot fit.

Sorry TV dot fit instead of fit transform I have to write transform and this will basically be my X

test data.

And I will try to convert this into an array okay.

And this is done.

So this is my X train.

With respect to this.

And this is my vocabulary here you can see all the values have got updated TV dot vocabulary is this

one.

And finally I don't have to perform this so I'll let me delete it.

No need of this.

Then I will try to do it with this fit predict.

And here you can see I'm getting 97% and this is at an average I'm getting 98%.

So this is the best practices that we should definitely do.

Uh, this, in short, was just to help you out how things needs to be done with respect to this so

that you don't have any confusion.

But please make sure that you follow this best practices.

And this is not with respect to only this problem statement, any machine learning problem statement

after doing the feature engineering, then uh, probably if if you are handling the missing values also,

then try to do a train test split and then you try to apply in this particular way.

Right.

So this is the best practices that we should follow.

I hope you are able to understand.

Uh, yes.

This was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Thank you.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue our discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video, we are going to solve the spam Ham classification project using word two vec and average

word two vec.

I'll just change the spelling.

Okay, so this will be an important one guys, because uh, with this the accuracy level will be quite

good, you know?

But the main thing is that how we can train this entire project from scratch using word two vec, that

is what we are going to see.

And for this, uh, we are going to use Gensim as the library.

So again you know that how to install this.

So you just need to write pip install Gensim.

If you don't have already then I'm going to import two things from gensim dot models import word two

vec vectors.

And I already have shown you that how you can load word two vec.

Google news 300 uh, model that is a word two vec model, which is a pre-trained model.

And here I've already shown you that by default you know, this particular word two vec model will give

you, uh uh, vectors with respect to that.

If I probably see the shape, it will be giving you a 300 dimension vectors.

So if I probably want to see the vector, uh, the king vectors itself, this specific word vector,

these are the vectors that I'm actually getting.

But now our plan is to take this entire data set, which is all the sentences, and then probably create

a word two vec from scratch.

So this will be an amazing one.

And probably with the help of this you'll be able to do a lot of task as such.

Okay.

And in this, uh, we are again going to use different, different techniques.

So let me just go ahead and let me do one by one.

So first of all, uh, this time what I'm actually doing, I'm also going to make some changes in NLTK.

I will not apply Potter stemmer, but I'll apply Lemmatizer.

Okay, so just this simple change because I really want to give you, uh, the different different types

in a specific project, how you can solve the similar things.

So I'm just going to import the word net Lemmatizer.

And then I'm going to basically say Lemmatizer.

Okay is equal to word net lemmatizer.

So I'm going to initialize this with the word net lemmatizer itself.

Now the next thing is that, uh, all the things will be same over here.

You'll be able to see that, uh, I am basically removing all the special characters from the messages

itself.

Right.

And this is basically my messages itself.

Right?

Then I'm lowering it.

I'm splitting it, you know, and, uh, let me do one thing.

I just, uh, don't want this all things to happen.

You know, I don't even want the stop words to apply, because I want to see that how for each and every

word, this vector will get created.

Okay.

That basically means I'm taking every word in this review, and I'm just applying the lemmatization

and I'm appending that in the corpus.

This is the change that I'm doing.

I'm not removing every stop word, because I also need to check that how it is basically creating a

vectors for each and every simple words.

Okay, so this is what I have actually done over here.

And right now I'm getting an error.

Okay I think I did not import re no problem.

So I'm going to import regular expression and what all things I need to import.

If I go over here and see okay, NLTK and import NLTK.

And I also have to make sure that I download all the stopwords.

Right.

And now if I probably go ahead and execute it.

So this is my entire corpus.

Perfect.

So the corpus is over here right.

So this is the corpus.

And in this particular corpus I have basically applied word net lemmatizer.

Okay.

Now uh, there are also multiple ways how you can also do this every time.

You don't have to probably do this today.

I'm going to show you some more in this particular video I'm going to show you some more techniques.

Let's say that I want to create all the words.

So this is basically my words.

And I'm going to show you a special function which is called as simple underscore processes.

Okay.

And for that uh, I just want to import two more things.

Let me just import it.

So two more things I'm going to import over here.

One is sent underscore tokenize.

You know what is sent underscore tokenize.

And this is a super important one which is nothing.

But from gensim dot util I'm going to import this simple underscore process.

Now probably if I show you the definition of simple underscore process here, you will be getting an

idea about what simple underscore process will basically do.

If I press shift tab, it converts a document into a list of lowercase tokens, ignoring tokens that

are too short or too long.

So if you also want to make sure that you want to lower any kind of tokens, you can directly use this

simple process.

And I'll just show you one way where I'll have all my words and all the things.

So I'll say for for sentences in corpus, because in the corpus I'll have a list of sentences.

Right.

Uh, I will just write, send, underscore, token.

I'll first of all create all the, uh, tokens itself with respect to sentences.

And I'll write, send, underscore, tokenize, okay, with respect to all the sentences.

So the sentence may have 4 to 5 sentences.

And it can also be a paragraph each and everything.

It can be different.

And then I will say from send and send underscore token right.

And I'm just going to apply this I'm just going to apply this simple process okay.

On all the sentences.

Now see what will be the output.

This is super important okay.

First of all, let me just write down the code so that you'll be able to see the output.

And this I'm basically going to append in my words list.

Right.

So this is what I have done okay.

Now if I probably execute it now see what will be the output.

Initially I had the corpus.

Corpus is something like this.

Now if I probably go and see my words.

So this is see for every sentences I'm getting all the list of words.

So this is my sentence one.

This is my sentence two.

This is my sentence three right.

And this is my sentence four so like this I can get each and every sentences.

That is what I'm actually meaning okay.

So over here you'll be able to see with respect to every sentences I'm getting all separate separate

words.

And this lowering process is also done by the simple underscore process which is very good.

So every time you probably don't have to do this, you can also take this specific path.

And again there are various ways I'm just using the most efficient way, most easy way so that you will

be able to follow the same thing.

Okay.

So this is with respect to all the words that I have probably got.

You can explore this with respect to all the sentences, all the words am I able to get, which is very,

very good now.

Now is a super important thing because see, at the end of the day, I need to train all this particular

word with the help of word two vec and then with the help of average word two vec, I'm just going to

do the concatenation, which is super, super important.

So uh, let me go ahead and let me show you that now how you can basically train everything from scratch.

And again, you know that what is the sentence size?

You know, what are the different different things in this.

Right.

Perfect.

You have got all the sentences with respect to all the words.

Okay.

Now the next step that I am probably going to do is that I'm going to import Gensim.

Okay.

And now let's train this model.

Let's train this word two vec model from scratch.

Let's train word two vec from scratch.

Like how that Google has basically trained right with the help of Gensim only will try to do it.

Now over here I'm going to import Gensim dot models dot word two vec.

And here just let's press shift tab.

Now over here Gensim dot models dot word two vec.

Here you'll be able to see that the first parameter that I'm giving is sentences.

Now already I have my sentences.

That is basically my words okay.

Now coming to the other parameter parameters which are the important parameters.

Here you can see vector size.

Now this is what I'm saying.

Now Google word two vec which we have seen in the pre-trained model.

It is giving you 300 dimensions.

But here you can see that you can set your own dimensions.

You can set 100 200 300.

So I'm going to by default set vector underscore size is equal to 100.

And you can play with all the other parameters like minimum count minimum count is basically like uh

if you probably see this.

Right.

Uh, somewhere this entire information is given over here.

But uh, here I'm just going to focus on very important features.

But definitely you can try and you can see all the features, what it is basically doing.

Let's see what is minimum underscore count.

It ignores all the word with total frequency lower than this.

This is basically to create the vocabulary size itself.

So over here what I'm actually going to do I'm going to give my words.

Along with that.

Let me keep this vector sizes 100 because I really need to get every words will get converted into 100

dimension.

I'll keep the windows and minimum count as the same size.

Okay, so let me just go ahead and probably execute this.

And probably I will just store this entirely in the model variable.

And this is will be my model itself.

Right now if I go ahead and basically write model dot w v, that is word to vector.

And there is something called as index underscore dot two underscore k.

And this particular line of code is to get all the vocab gallery okay.

So if I probably execute now here you can basically see these are all the vocabularies over here.

If you really want to check what is the vocabulary size over here.

So you can basically write model dot corpus count.

Let's see corpus count.

If I execute it here you can see 5569 is basically my vocabulary size.

And you can also see that for how many epochs it has basically been trained.

And by default it will be taking five epochs.

The more number of epochs, the more better it is.

But just to give you an idea about how the training will happen, because if you give 100 epochs, probably

this entire training will take a good amount of time with respect to that, right?

Right now I've just done it for five epochs, because that is what is the default, uh, value that

is given over there.

You can keep it to ten, 20 whatever values you want.

Right.

And now if I probably try to see similar.

Similar by word.

So there is a function called a similar by word.

Let's say if I'm taking a feature called a skid right.

And if I execute it now here you can see with respect to the skid what all values you are able to get

or what all similar words you are able to get along with the cosine similarity score.

Right?

This is very, very good.

Suppose if I say good right?

So here also you can see.

Morning.

What.

Not happy.

See happy is also coming.

I know the training has just been done for five epochs.

So you are probably being able to get like this.

But here you will be able to see that yes, you are able to get some of the words which are super similar

right now.

Uh, one more very important thing is that whatever vector see what is the vector that is getting created

over here.

So if I write model dot w v of good right.

And if I see this vector size you'll be able to see it is 100 itself.

Right.

So these are the 100 dimension that is getting created.

So probably if I write dot shape you'll be able to get this.

So I'm getting 100 different uh vectors with respect to every word.

That is good okay.

Now this is a super, super important step.

As I said why do we use average word two?

VEC I've told you that.

See let's say or let me just go and show you.

Okay.

This is my words, right?

Suppose if I say words of zero, this is my first sentence.

Go until Jurong Point.

This, this this.

Now if I probably consider this word two vec for every word, it will give you 100 dimensions, right?

For every word for go it will be 100 dimension vectors for until it will be 100 dimension vectors.

For all these things it will be 100 dimension vector.

But what we really need to do is that for every one sentence, we need to get 100 dimension vectors,

right?

That is what we really need to get it right in order to train our model.

So what we can do is that for go for until for Jurong, what we can do, we can basically do the averaging

of all the vectors of with this specific word.

And then we will be only be able to get the 100 dimensions.

So let me just explain you what I'm actually trying to say.

Right.

So over here you'll be able to see that.

Let me enable the writing over here so that you'll be able to see.

So what I'm actually saying is that suppose let's say let me first of all rub this, and this is super

important because, uh, without this, uh, the average word two vec, you'll not be able to train.

So let's say I have this go word.

I have this until word, I have this Jurong word.

And I have lot of words like this right in the sentences.

So go will have a separate vector like this until we'll have a separate vector like this.

Jurong will have a separate vector like this.

And every word will have a separate vector like this.

Right.

Now this this is my entire sentence.

And for this entire sentence, I want a vector of 100 size.

So what I will do, I will average up all these numbers.

All these numbers.

Let's say I'm going to average up all this values and I'm going to get one specific vector.

So this will be for my entire sentence.

And this particular vector size will also be of 300 dimensions.

And that is what I have already told you about how the average word two vec, uh, intuition is all

about.

Then this sentence will be treated as this input and the output, whatever output is there with respect

to that either it is one and zero will be taking that.

So this is what we basically do in average word two vec.

So in short I have to find out the average of all this okay.

And that is what I will show you in the code itself.

Right.

So here I have actually created a function which is called as average word two vec.

Here I'm saying that model see return np dot mean.

Mean basically means average for word in doc for every word in doc over here that I have given.

If the word is not in this index dot two key, then only I will probably try to create a my model vector.

Right.

And then this will basically happen on axis is equal to zero.

So this is a very simple function.

I'm just making sure that a row wise I have to probably do the mean.

That is only what we are doing over here.

So let me just execute this, okay.

And uh, before I go ahead and probably, uh, do the other work over here itself, I also want to make

sure that I install one progression tab.

Right.

So to just to understand the progress.

So I'll be using Tqdm okay.

And this will probably take some time with respect to this, uh, because this Tqdm, uh, and why I'm

doing this, I'll just tell you in some time.

Okay.

So from Tqdm I'm going to import Tqdm.

Okay.

And, uh, here it is.

Uh, so here what we are going to do is that, uh, I'm just going to import this just a second.

Okay, now this is done.

Now what I'm actually going to do, I'm applying this entire thing.

I'm trying to apply this word two vec on every sentences.

On every every sentences okay.

This is super important.

I will try to apply the word two vec on every sentences average word two vec.

So whatever things I'm basically doing this for every sentence it will take up and it will apply this

particular thing and it will do the average of all the vectors okay.

And that is what we are doing over here.

Just uh, to see the progress I've written.

Hello.

But I think that is also not required since we have the Tqdm.

So I'm just going to remove this and just go ahead and execute it.

So here I see some error okay.

NumPy is not there because I did not import it.

Not a problem.

So I'll say import numpy as np and we'll start the process.

Now here you can see that uh, I think um, we did not get any kind of errors.

And now let's go and see our x okay.

So this is what I am able to get.

See how quickly it has happened.

So this is with respect to the first sentence vector.

This is my second sentence vector which is quite amazing.

And this is my third sentence vector.

And here we have just done average word two vec.

Right.

Amazing.

Right.

So this is what I'm actually getting.

And if I probably try to see my x dot shape you'll be able to see x dot shape r x x x okay x is a list.

Not a problem.

So if I probably go and see uh length of x.

You'll be seeing that this will basically be my five, five, six, nine, which is the input size of

the messages.

Right?

So this is what is my input size of the messages with respect to that.

And this is how we have basically done the entire word two vec, which is quite good.

Uh, now the next thing that we just need to do is that try to convert this into an array.

So here I will just write x underscore new is equal to NP dot array on x right.

So this becomes my independent features.

Independent features.

Independent features.

Right.

So this is what I'm doing.

But here you just try to understand what we have done.

We have just done average word two vec on every sentence is after finding out the vector right.

And this you can see how quickly it has happened for all the sentences over here.

And this is my final sentence over here.

Right.

All the vectors.

This is the vectors 100.

And remember all these are 100 dimension.

So if I probably now see this x dot shape, see if I write x underscore new dot shape, you will be

able to see I'm having 5569.

Right.

This is super, super amazing.

And uh this is what we have actually done it.

So let's say if I'm writing X underscore new of zero, I'm actually getting my first array right, which

is very good.

Right.

And now if I probably try to see the shape of this, you'll be able to see that I'm getting 100 dimension.

Right.

So super cool.

Uh, we have done an amazing work with respect to this.

Uh, and, uh, obviously, you know, what is my dependent feature is so dependent feature, uh, is

my output feature.

Okay.

So I'm just going to write my dependent feature over here.

So already I've shown you in the previous like how you can take the dependent feature.

I will apply this as my output feature over here and take the first label right over here.

And that is done.

So this is my Y dependent output feature and this is my independent feature.

Now in the upcoming video, what we are going to do is that we're just going to apply the machine learning

algorithm, because I have now my input features and this is my output feature.

All I have to do is that train my model.

Right.

So this part, uh, the second part will be seeing in the next video.

I hope you are able to understand.

Now, this is the thing that you really need to do with respect to all the problems.

Uh, very easily.

All the code is available over here.

You can try it out.

You can see.

And what all things you can basically do, right?

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to the Spam Ham project with the help of word

two vec and average word two vec.

Already we have converted everything into the vectors, and we also saw that our x underscore nu.

That is the data, right?

It is basically having five, five, six, nine rows.

Now there are multiple things which I really want to talk about right now.

And uh, this will probably be giving you a sense like what is necessary before we start, uh, providing

this entire data set to the training algorithm right now.

First of all, here you can see that whenever I see with respect to any, any vector, any any sentences,

there will be 100 dimension.

This is perfectly fine.

But, uh, if I probably see the shape of the messages.

So if I see the messages right now, this is what is my messages, right?

And probably if I see the shape of it here, you'll be able to see five, five, seven, two rows and

two columns.

Right.

But the number of rows that is coming in X underscore nu it is 556155.

Sorry 5569.

So obviously there is a problem because initially we had 5572 rows.

Now we just have 5569 rows right.

So this is not matching.

And x underscore nu is after all the sentences are converted into vectors with the help of average word

two vec.

So one important thing is that we have to make and and probably if I also see the y value right.

So y shape is also uh if I, if I just go ahead and uh execute this.

Now here you can see basically see uh, with respect to this, let's say I'm going to basically use

messages of level, right.

So if I also see y shape that is the output feature is also 5572.

But my independent feature is 5569 rows.

So this is a big issue.

That basically means our training data set is just having five, five six, nine data points.

But my output data is 5572.

So after pre-processing right, we have lost three records.

Now we really need to find out why this three records have been lost.

And this is an amazing use case guys, because when I was also solving this problem, it took me a lot

of time to understand where that three rows went and how did this three rows get removed from this particular

data set.

That is also a thing.

Now let me go back up over here right before the corpus.

So here was the corpus.

Let's let me show you the corpus.

So here I was getting my corpus right after this code.

Now I have added one line of code.

I'm saying that I comma j comma k three information.

I'm taking it out and I will be nothing, but I'm zipping it length comma corpus.

So I'm I'm basically going to have one information about the length of the corpus.

So it will be in this mapping condition.

And then I have this corpus.

And then I'm displaying the messages okay.

And I'm only displaying when if I is less than one.

Now what is I.

I is nothing but this is the length of the corpus, right?

If the corpus length is less than one, I am basically displaying all the data, right?

So once I execute this and probably you can see this, this is a very simple Python code.

I'm using zip list of map length comma corpus.

Then I'm getting the corpus value and then I'm getting the messages message value right.

And over here you can see that uh, initially there was some message like six four, five and it has

got removed and it has become blank.

Why?

Because I have told that only A to Z and capital A to Z should be there and everything should be removed.

I could have also put up like 1 to 9 also.

Then also it would work right?

But now in this particular scenario it is just going to remove everything, even words, even even this

kind of characters.

Right?

So everything is getting removed and it is becoming blank.

So that is the reason I'm getting zero.

And if I probably execute this, how many values I'm getting I'm getting three right.

123.

And this is like if I probably subtract from my entire data set, then I am like initially my data set

was 5572.

If I'm subtracting three, I will definitely get 5569, right?

So that is the reason why three is missing.

Now we need to find out with respect to y also where that length is less than one.

So what I've done is that over here when I'm creating y you know, I've just written this messages of

list of map of lambda length of x is greater than zero comma corpus.

When I've written this, I just have to replace this messages with y.

And now you'll be able to see that I'll be getting the y dot shape as same.

Nothing I've done, I've just found out that which are length of the data or the paragraph or the sentence

is greater than zero in this specific corpus.

I'm just taking that particular messages and probably doing get underscore dummies, and I'm getting

my output feature right now.

One other thing now first issue is basically solved right now, even though my message is 5572.

Now my x underscore new is 5569.

And uh, and if I probably just see x underscore new let's see x.

Underscore new.

So x underscore new is basically.

So if I execute this once again let me just execute it.

Okay.

Or forget about X underscore new because I've converted x into x underscore new.

So here it is got converted.

And this is my maximum.

And this is my x underscore new.

Now if I probably consider x.

Also forget about x underscore new.

Let's see x okay x is list of arrays okay.

List of arrays.

Now if I probably see the length of x right now it is the type is what is the type of x.

It is nothing.

But uh list.

The length of list is 556, nine.

And if I probably write x of zero.

So this will be my first sentence.

First sentence vector.

Then if I write x of one this will be my second sentence vector.

Similarly, if I write x of two, this will be my third sentence vector.

Okay, so all these things are there.

Okay.

Now this is perfectly there.

Okay.

Now what we are basically going to do is that now see this is super important.

I need to add each and every vector, each and every vector that are present over here as a row in a

data frame, because it will become my independent features.

Right.

So for that what I'm doing is that again, again I'm repeating it guys.

See X of zero is basically my vector of the first row right.

First sentence.

So I need to add all this particular thing inside a data frame within the first first row itself.

Right.

Because these are the all the dimensions.

Similarly x of one should be added as my second data point in the data frame.

And for that I have I'm I'm writing this specific code.

My y variable is already ready.

What I've done is that this is my final independent feature.

I have created PD dot data frame and then I'm writing for I in range of zero comma length of x okay.

And then I write df dot append pd dot data frame of x of I dot reshape of one comma minus one.

Now this is super important.

Understand this okay.

So if I say x of zero okay.

And if I probably just see the shape this is a single dimension array right 100 comma because it has

100 vectors.

Now what I need to do is that I need to add this as a row in the data frame.

So I will be using reshape.

And here one, once I write one comma minus one here, I'll be able to see that this entire row will

now have a dimension of dot shape, like one row and 100 columns.

And that is what we really need to do, right?

The first sentence is nothing, but it should be a one row data point with 100 different vectors.

That is nothing but 100 columns.

Now similarly, what I'm actually going to do, I'm going to add like this.

For every data point that is present inside x of I, right.

Basically the x value.

Suppose if I want to do it for X1X2X3, all these data point needs to be appended over here.

So that is the reason why I have written for loop.

And I'm writing this and I have used ignore underscore index is equal to true.

So one assignment just try to find out what is the meaning of this.

And it is very simple.

You just go ahead press shift tab.

You'll be getting the information over here itself okay.

So once I execute this now you'll be able to see that this execution will take some time.

Now if I write DF dot shape.

Now here you can see that 5569 data points is there.

And now we have 100 dimensions 100 features.

Right.

And that is what it is there.

Now if I probably go ahead and write DF dot head, you will be able to see these are all my data points.

I don't worry about the what is the columns.

So this is my first sentence.

Data points.

This is my second sentence data points right.

And these are my independent features.

And it will.

It is all 100 dimension right now.

What I can do is that I can basically write uh, my independent feature is nothing but x is equal to

DF, right.

So I can basically write like this.

And my y already, I know I'll just print the y.

Also.

Okay.

So this is my x and this is my y.

The next step what I will do again very simple I will do the train test split.

So train test split.

And here I will be giving my x y this this is there and automatically everything will start getting

executed.

So this is my X train.

Uh dot head right.

And here you can basically see all my data set with respect to this.

What is my y underscore train that also you can basically see and let me write dot head.

So I think in a series dot head will not work okay.

It is a numpy array problem.

So this is my y y train right.

So everything is there.

We have our independent feature.

We have our dependent feature.

Now we can apply any machine learning algorithm for this case.

Let me just say because at the end of the day this all vectors are a dense vector.

So I'm going to basically apply sklearn random forest okay.

And it should be a classification problem.

It should be a classification problem.

So here you can see from sklearn dot ensemble okay.

From sklearn dot ensemble I'm going to import random forest classifier okay.

So this will be my classifier.

And I will just initialize it to random forest classifier and this is done.

And after that I will just write classifier dot fit on my x train.

White, right?

Okay, now I'm getting an error.

Let's see what is the error?

Input contains Nan infinity or a value too large for data type.

Now this is the error that we are specifically getting.

So let's see how we can actually fix this.

So guys now here you can see that I am getting a specific error over here.

Right.

It is saying that input contains Nan infinity and all.

So we do not do a check.

So that is the reason we are getting this.

So once I get my x value let's see that whether I have any Nan values or not.

So here if I write x dot is null okay dot sum.

And if I probably see this how many null values that I have okay function has no attribute sum okay

not a problem is null dot sum.

So here you can basically see that okay there are 12 null values in every every feature.

Right.

Every every columns in shot.

Right.

So uh, obviously we have done so much in pre-processing and all.

So we can directly remove this vector.

So before that, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm just going to make sure that I have my output

feature also over here and append it to this.

So I can basically do it in my DF itself.

So I'm just going to make a cell up and let me write DF off output okay.

First I will initialize it to y value.

So this is done.

So this is my entire df.

DF dot head.

Now here you can see I'm just adding my y variable also over here.

And finally you'll be able to see this is my output okay.

Now first thing first I will just remove the null value.

So I'll say df dot.

How to remove the null value.

Um fill.

Uh.

Or I can say drop any okay.

Drop any.

And over here I have features like axis is equal to zero, axis is equal to one.

So I would definitely like with axis is equal to zero because uh, I want to remove all the rows itself.

And let me make sure that let me just write it as in place is equal to true.

So this has got executed.

Now if I probably go ahead and see df dot is null dot sum.

Now I think we are fixing all the problems again.

Uh as null is there so dot sum now I have zeros.

Now all I have to do is that put over here right as DF.

And again if I probably see this is null okay.

In my x value.

In my y value I can basically use df off output okay.

And this will be there.

Let me see what is the output variable.

Yeah capital O okay.

So this will basically be my output feature done.

So I have my x and y.

Now all I have to do do the train test split then again head.

Then this is my Y train okay.

And then I'll apply my random forest classifier.

And I don't need to check this.

And uh let's go ahead and do the fit.

Finally the fit has been successfully done.

Now you just understand that just to do this, you know how many different, different issues are coming.

And I'm deliberately not deleting all these issues.

I'm trying to show you what all situations, what all different, different things may come.

And then what I can do is that I can just do the prediction.

So here I'm just writing classifier dot predict.

And this will basically be my test test data.

And this will basically be my ypred.

Okay.

And again uh on random forest classifier also you can perform a lot of hyperparameter tuning.

Uh, now let me just go ahead and write the accuracy score and classification report.

So here I'm going to print.

Accuracy score with respect to y underscore test comma y underscore bread.

So this is the accuracy that I'm getting which is good.

Okay.

And similarly I can print my.

Classification report with Y underscore test just to make sure that everything is fine.

So here also I'm getting a good accuracy.

And sometimes this can also lead to overfitting.

But I don't want if you don't want to do overfitting you just need to perform some hyperparameter tuning

in random forest.

So I hope you got an idea about how we can perform this.

And finally, we have done this in an amazing way.

Line by line.

We have written so many codes, we have understood different things.

You just need to practice things and you will be able to do this.

So with the help of average word two vec, also we are able to do this right.

And yes finally we are done.

All now you have to do is practice with different different problem statements.

The lot of data sets take up.

Do it and yes, try to do it in a better way.

Right.

So from this also I'm just going to remove this two lines of code because I don't want you to get stuck

over here just to explain you I have explained I have just put up this you need not execute this line

of code itself.

So yes, this was it from my side.

I will see you all in the next video.

Hello guys.

So we are going to continue the discussion with respect to natural language processing.

In this video, I'm going to start a new project which is called as Kindle Review Sentiment Analysis.

An amazing use case altogether.

So you can do many things over here.

Uh, so let's talk about the data set.

First of all, what is the data set all about.

So this is a small subset of data set of book reviews from Amazon Amazon Kindle stores.

Category content five five.

Core data set of product reviews from Amazon Kindle story category from May 19th 96 to 2014 contains

a total of this many number of entries.

Each reviewer has at least five reviews, and each product has at least five reviews in the data set.

So these are some of the features that we have.

And we also have one very important feature which is the output feature which is called as rating.

Okay.

So just want to give an acknowledgement about this particular data set.

This data set is taken from the Amazon product data.

Uh from this Julian McCauley uc SC uh st website.

So this particular website over here, you can see this.

You can find out different different data sets.

Also if you really want to train it from scratch.

Right.

So uh, this is just a small data set, uh, even though I'm saying small data set, but this has this

many number of entries also.

So, uh, license to the data set belongs to them.

So the entire credit is given to them with respect to this.

Okay.

Now what all things we can basically do over here so we can, uh, you can see do sentiment analysis.

We can probably do fake reviews or outliers or any other interesting analysis we can basically use even

we can use word two vec with respect to this.

Now just to talk about this particular data set.

This data set looks something like this.

Uh, and right now we will not be able to understand it.

So let me quickly, uh, import pandas and probably read this particular data set.

And we will start doing this particular project again.

Uh, the main intention of the project is to follow all the best practices.

So let me just go ahead and write it out.

So what all best practices we are going to use it.

And probably um, you also have to follow this.

So the first thing is that we will be doing uh, pre-processing and cleaning, which we can also say

it as feature engineering.

Okay.

So this part we should definitely do it.

The second thing is that I will go ahead and do train test split.

Right.

And then we can probably apply bag of words TF-IDF or you want word two vec.

Anything you can basically apply.

But I will just show you a couple of things and remaining all things.

You can basically do it okay.

Uh fourth one then will probably train with some machine learning algorithms, train ML algorithms or

with respect to this.

Okay.

So here it is.

Uh best practices.

We are going to follow this.

Uh, and I've also told you what is the what is the what is data leakage altogether.

Right.

So we always need to after doing the, uh, pre-processing and cleaning we should definitely go ahead

with train test split.

So let's go ahead and load the data set over here.

So, uh, the loading of the data set is pretty much simple.

We basically use.

Uh, the data.

So let's say this is my data self.

I will be using PD, dot read underscore csv.

Oh, before that, I'll import pandas.

Right.

I need to import pandas.

Pandas as PD.

Read underscore CSV, and I will also try to show you everything with respect to this.

Okay.

So over here you'll be able to see that my data set is present inside Kindle reviews.

So I will be using this folder Kindle reviews.

And then all uh, let me just check out the data set name.

So this is my data set name.

We'll just use this one over here.

Right.

So done on the data data set will be able to load it.

Now let's go ahead and see what is data dot head.

So this is how my data set looks like right now.

I'm not ignore the columns.

So by default some indexes are coming.

But the most important features out of here are review text and rating.

I'll not be using other for this particular use case.

For this use case, I just require the review text and rating itself.

So let's go ahead and read that specific thing.

And in order to read it, I will just use data off two features and I'll just give my feature name.

One is review text.

Review text.

And the second one is something like ratings.

Okay rating.

And probably if I just execute this, I'll be able to get it.

So I will just try to replace entirely with the data itself.

And now I can probably see the data dot head.

Okay.

So easy with respect to reading the data set.

And over here uh let's see some of the unique values.

How much null are there and all.

We'll try to see it out and we'll try to check it out.

Okay.

Uh, so uh, first of all, uh, let's see the data dot shape.

Uh, so here you can see I'm having 12,000 records.

Okay, uh, let's check out the missing values.

Okay.

Uh, so to check out the missing values, it is very much simple here.

I'm just going to use data loss is null dot sum.

Okay.

Uh, so that is zero.

No, no missing values as such.

Let's see how many unique ratings I have.

So if I say unique uh, unique.

So I will probably be able to see that.

How many unique ratings are there.

Let's see.

So here are 3456 uh 3412345.

So five different ratings are there.

Okay I'm just going to use this.

Let me remove this part okay.

And uh, if I probably want to see the data ratings value underscore count just to find out that how

many whether this is an imbalanced data set or value underscore counts.

So here are like five ratings are 3000 3000 reviews are with five ratings, 4000 with three, 2000 with

this 2000 2000.

Right.

So I have overall a good number of ratings and almost all of them are almost similar.

Right.

So this is perfect.

Uh, I have our data set in a very good way.

So we should definitely go ahead and try to solve this.

Now focusing on the first point.

As said we are going to do the pre-processing.

Preprocessing and cleaning right.

So this is super important.

And cleaning.

So what all things we need to clean.

See uh it is not like possible that you go and check each and every sentence.

And what are the things are not.

But what is the main thing that we are interested in.

Much more information about the text if it is available, that is actually good for us right now.

First of all, the first thing that I need to really fix about is the rating, right?

I can use this many number of ratings and probably do the classification.

But here when we are saying review sentiment analysis, I just want to see that with respect to a specific

sentence, whether the review is positive or negative.

Right.

Or I can make also three categories.

Let's say in this particular use case I'm just going to focus on three categories.

Let's say any reviews that are less than three okay.

Less than three I will say it as uh, negative sentiment or a negative review itself.

If I see any review that is greater than three, then I may say it as a positive review.

So this is what I'm actually going to do.

And for this I will just use data of rating.

And if you know something about Python.

So here we have a function called as apply okay.

And now inside this apply what I will be doing is that I will just write one condition.

If if my x is less than three okay.

That that basically means I'm saying that I'm, I'm going to take each and every rating and I'm going

to basically perform this particular condition.

Right.

If my X is three here, then my output should be actually one.

And this I can only apply if I have a lambda variable.

Okay.

So here if you know the basic functionalities of lambda I can basically write lambda x.

If x is less than three else I will say it as.

Zero.

Let me see.

Okay.

For, uh, for any ratings that are less than three, I'm basically saying that negative will be zero

and positive will be one.

Okay.

Or you can do vice versa.

It is up to you.

At the end of the day, you are going to get any kind of output itself, right.

So here I'm just going to write it as over here.

Just to give a simple thing, positive review is zero.

Sorry one.

And negative review is zero right.

Is zero.

Perfect.

So this is done.

Uh, let's see, I'm getting an error which says that dot apply.

This is there.

Let's see whether everything is right or not.

Date of rating.

Dot apply o lambda lambda b okay so this is the problem that we faced it.

So with respect to that I can see that I'm actually getting converted to 1 or 2.

Right.

So what I'm actually going to do I'm just going to say data off rating okay okay.

So here I'm just going to apply this.

Insert.

Insert is equal to.

This is the and let me write it as.

Data of rating.

Every time I write data right it is really confusing.

So let me do one thing okay.

Let me write this as df okay DF because data frame it'll it'll give a good reason to say me as a data

frame.

Right.

So data frame is null data frame DF okay.

And this is the thing that we use right.

Most of the time.

And we can actually use this df and df okay.

So here I'm going to execute it.

And finally if I probably go and see my DF dot head.

You'll be able to see that I'm getting this.

Ones and zeros.

Uh, so if you don't believe me, just go ahead and probably write DF off rating dot unique.

You will be able to see this.

Right.

So it is ones and zeros.

So this is the first thing I had so many number of categories I just made it as ones and zeros okay.

So these are the basic thing that we did.

Now uh again we can also check with respect to value underscore counts and how good that is or how bad

that is.

So total number of ones are 8000 and total number of zeros are 4000.

So I will not say this as an imbalanced data set.

It is good enough right.

It is good enough with respect to the data set because 50% is there.

And I think most of the machine learning algorithms will be able to handle.

Okay.

Now this is the first thing that we specifically did.

Now I will go ahead and write some pre-processing steps that we usually face with respect to, uh,

you know, any kind of text data.

The first thing is that we try to lower all the cases, right?

That is important step, as I have already told you.

And again, uh, we can also do this with the help of a simple thing like I will be taking DF off.

Okay.

And this will basically be rating dot star dot lower.

And I can basically write this.

So let's see what is the error.

Uh can only use str access with string values.

Okay okay.

Sorry I'm using it on rating.

Right.

So it will be rating text okay.

Or it will be review text I have my review text okay.

And once I execute this now here you can see all these 12,000 words are becoming smaller.

Right.

So here I will just save this in my review underscore text.

Review text.

Right.

So perfect.

This is what I'm actually got it now.

DF dot head.

You'll be able to see that I'm actually having a lowering of things.

Now let's go with the second step okay.

So this was the first step.

Now with the second step what I'm actually going to focus on is a very simple thing.

Uh, that I am actually going to do is that I'm just going to clean the data, clean the data with respect

to different, different things.

Now, I want I don't want any special characters out of it.

Right.

So, uh, in order to remove all the special characters, what all things I can basically do, it's

very simple, right?

Removing.

Special.

Characters.

So removing special characters and then we can probably go ahead with removing stop words.

We can go ahead in removing punctuations, different different things.

And already I've actually shown you how about lowering all the cases.

Um, so what I will do is that I have probably written a code over here and all step by step, we will

try to do this.

Okay.

Now, first one that you are probably being able to see, right.

Uh, if I probably say first step is basically removing special characters.

Now see this how I'm actually applying it.

And by using lambda function, you can perform all these operations in the data frame itself, which

is very, very good.

Right.

So uh, here you can see DF of review of text dot apply lambda.

And suppose if I say over here removing special character what I'm putting as a regular expression over

here A to Z capital A to Z and 0 to 9 only this should letter should be there in the text itself, right?

Other than this, everything should be removed with a blank, right?

So that is what we have done with respect to special characters.

Then I'm applying I'm basically removing all the stopwords.

Now in order to apply remove all the stopwords.

I'll take up all the sentences.

First of all, I will find out all the words in those sentences, and I'll see that even if that particular

word is present in the stopwords or not, if it is not present, then I will probably apply.

Uh, I'll just remove all the stopwords and then combine all those words and probably join them as a

sentence that is basically done in the second step.

Okay.

So here you can see if why not in Stopwords then only I'm going to take that why and join back that

into a sentence.

Now third step is that.

Now see guys generically within a text you may find all this things.

You may find special characters.

You may find URLs.

Right.

URLs are also not that important because in the text they may put some product review URL and all and

all right.

So I should also try to remove the URL.

And again I'm again applying a regular expression over here which is this regular expression.

And I had to put a lot of efforts in writing this particular regular expression from one website.

I checked it out.

Now see this URLs basically means any Gmail ID, any specific URL, any email ID that all things will

be getting removed.

So I have added at the rate and all and this all things you can basically perform it.

And this is again a regular expression which will basically start with if there is an HTTP, https,

FTP or SSH, just try to remove that, okay.

And then finally I'm also removing the HTML tags.

Now to remove the HTML tags we can use a beautiful soup library.

So here again lambda function is getting applied x comma lxml.

And I'll be getting the text where it all the HTML tags will get just removed.

And we'll just have the text itself.

And finally I'm joining them over here I'm removing all the additional spaces.

So these are kind of pre-processing.

Just see with respect to text data right.

You may find out this all scenarios over here.

And it is always better that we write this kind of a generic code.

Now over here you should see that what all libraries we require first is import re okay.

Import re import the regular expression.

And then I'm basically going to import nltk because I'm also going to use uh stopwords.

So I'll say from NLTK dot corpus import Stopwords.

Okay, so this is done.

And then what I'm going to do, I'm going to basically write analytic dot download.

And I'm going to download all the stopwords.

Okay I'm going to basically download.

Mm all the stopwords animal decay dot download or stopwords.

Then you know that in stopwords also we have something else, right.

So import and decay.

Uh, no module named NLTK from NLTK dot corpus import stopwords.

So let's see.

Okay, here it is NLTK right.

So I have done this.

This is true.

Uh, as I said uh for HTML tags we are using beautiful soup.

So what I'm actually going to do is that I'm also going to import the beautiful soup library.

And again the installation is very much simple for this.

Uh, all I have to do is that take up all the beautiful soup library and add it as an import statement.

So I'll add a text above code above, and I will just say from BS4 import beautiful soup.

And if this particular library is not there just try to import it okay.

So beautiful soup is also done.

R is also done.

Everything is done with respect to Stopwords.

Now let me go ahead and apply it on my DF.

Now this is probably going to take some of the time, because there are so many regular expression that

will get applied.

It depends on system to system, right?

So finally, uh, if I go ahead and now see my DF dot head, now this is what is my data set looks like.

And over here still there is some problem.

See over here.

Uh, I mean, I when I was trying to join this, right, there is a problem over here.

Like it is not it is removed all the white spaces.

Right.

And this is also again a problem.

Let's fix this.

Let's go ahead and fix this particular part also.

Now guys you can see over here all the spaces has been removed.

So let's go ahead and debug this though.

So what I will do is that I will just try to one problem that I see over here right when we are replacing

like other than this, right.

I will probably just try to give a spaces over here.

Okay.

Now see because of this particular spaces right.

What will happen is that that spaces will get maintained in all the text.

Right.

So this is one of the mistake that I specifically did over here.

So what I'm actually going to do again, I'm just going to execute from uh, let's say from this particular

part where I have all my data.

So now you can see everything may be working fine.

So here is my rating.

It has got applied.

Now this is number of ones and zeros.

And don't worry about all these warnings if those warnings are coming.

So this is my DF dot head.

Now I'll download the stopwords.

Now apply this.

Now let's go ahead and apply this all things.

Now if I probably go and see my DF dot head, let's see how much time it will take.

Some amount of time.

With respect to this only the thing that I have updated is that I've given some additional spaces because

of the issues that was coming, and now it is just going to apply for all the regular expression that

is available over here.

And uh, this will probably take some time.

So I will wait till all the execution will get over.

Okay.

So guys.

So finally you can see the DF dot head.

And probably it took two minutes for this entire processing to happen.

This kind of warnings that are coming, don't worry about it.

It will not create a major impact, uh, in this kind of problem statements.

Uh, but you can basically use dot lock instead of directly assigning a value with respect to data frame.

Okay.

So this is how my DF dot head looks like.

And the previous issue is now fixed.

I'm having spaces.

All are in small letters.

This is perfectly fine.

Now the next step that I'm actually going to perform is basically applying a word net lemmatizer.

Okay, so let's go ahead and apply a word net lemmatizer.

That basically means uh, in short, I'm going to apply the lemmatization, uh, in this entire text.

Okay.

So let me go ahead and write this Lemmatizer.

So for Lemmatizer, it is very simple, I will say from NLTK.

From NLTK dot stem import a word net lemmatizer.

And here is my initialization with respect to word net lemmatizer.

Now, uh, let me create a function.

So okay.

Sorry I don't have to initialize like this.

So, uh, let me do one thing.

Let me just create a lemmatizer, which will be the word.

Net Lemmatizer initialization.

And, uh, all I will be doing is that I've created a function which is called as lemmatize words.

So that basically means whatever text I'm going to give over here, it is going to split all those texts

and it is just going to apply the lemmatization.

Okay.

So Lemmatizer dot Lemmatize and it is just going to give us the output.

Okay.

So finally I can apply this back to my data set.

So what I'm actually going to do I'm just going to copy this entire thing.

The last statement again apply the lemmatization over here.

And again I'll be using a lambda function inside this.

I will just be changing it.

And I'll apply lambda function.

Guys that is it is very, very useful.

That is the reason why I'm showing you over here.

And this I will give it to my lemmatizer words with respect to X, right?

So once we do this, uh, again this will take some time because lemmatization uh, usually takes time

with respect to all the process.

Right.

So finally I have my DF dot head.

Right.

This is perfect.

I have all the things that are available right now over here.

Now let's go to the second step regarding the train test split.

And then we will go ahead with the things.

Right.

So for train test split all I will be doing is that I'll be importing from sklearn dot model selection

import.

In train test split.

And then I'm just going to put x underscore train X underscore test.

Y underscore train comma y underscore go test.

And this will be.

Train test split here.

Uh, the first thing that I'm going to give as my x axis will be my DF of review text.

Okay?

And the y axis will be.

Let me make some more cells.

Okay.

This goes down.

Then I'll copy and paste it over here and over here.

Uh, this will basically be my DF of ratings right.

And I hope rating is one and zero and perfect.

So in my next line I'll say what is my test size?

Test size is equal to 0.20.

And this is done with random state so far.

Perfect.

We have done the second step.

So that basically means if we see the best practices that we are going and following right.

Pre-processing and cleaning is done, train test split will be done.

Now I will just go ahead and apply the bag of words and then train the machine learning algorithm.

So this part we will do in the part two.

Hello guys.

We are going to continue our discussion with respect to the Kindle Review Sentiment Analysis project,

and we are in the part two.

In the part one, we have already done all the pre-processing and cleaning now, and we have also done

about a train test split.

Now, according to the methodologies that we are following, the best practices we are following now

only bag of words TF-IDF.

Basically, the technique of converting words into or sentences into vectors is remaining.

And then probably we will apply the ML algorithm with respect to word two vec.

I'll give you this as an assignment.

But with respect to bag of words and TF-IDF I'll try to show you over here again.

Word two vec is almost similar.

Like whatever things we have discussed.

Also, make sure that you use average word two vec so that you will be able to convert all the sentences

into vectors.

Now in order to apply word two vec sorry, bag of words and all, what I'm actually going to do, I'm

going to import some libraries.

So let's say from sklearn dot feature extraction dot text I'm going to import count vectorizer okay.

And then finally I will say Vectorizer or I will say count vectorizer is nothing but bag of words.

So I'll say b o w is equal to count vectorizer and we can now convert x underscore train underscore

b o w.

So I'll say b o w.

That is like a bag of words.

And I can write b o w dot fit underscore transform okay.

And here I'm just going to give my x train data right.

Understand for the training data set we need to give extra fit underscore transform for the test data.

What I'm actually going to do we are going to just apply b o w dot transform.

And I've told you already why we need to do this.

So that data leakage should not be there.

Right.

So this should happen on X test.

Perfect.

Uh so these two things are there.

I'll just go ahead and execute it.

And similarly I can also do the same steps for tf IDF Tfidfvectorizer.

So here I will just write it as tf IDF.

And already we know how to do this.

Right.

So I'm just going to write tf IDF Tfidfvectorizer.

And uh, with respect to this, I'm just going to create tf IDF variable like this so that we'll have

both the variables.

Right.

And uh, instead of writing b o w I will write it over here, this one and this one.

Right.

So we are doing fit underscore transform X train and transform on X test.

So here we are also able to get the vectorizer.

So if I probably see x underscore train.

Right or okay let's X underscore train.

Right.

Underscore b.o.w.

So you'll be able to see all the vectors that is getting converted.

Still this is not getting converted to an array.

So in order to convert this to an array what I can actually do is that I can just write two array over

here.

And same thing I can copy everywhere right over here.

Also

.23.23.2 array.

Perfect.

So these are all my independent features right.

So now if I probably see X underscore train underscore Bo you'll be able to see all these things.

And somewhere decimals values one zeros will be there.

Okay.

Uh and similarly if I can also see X train tfidf I'll be able to get it.

Now the next step, what I'm actually going to do is that I'm going to apply a nave bias algorithm,

because it usually fits well with the sparse matrix data set.

Right.

So I have something like excelon dot nave bias import.

I can use multinomial.

Also I can use Gaussian name bias also.

So I'll go ahead and use Gaussian name bias.

So I'll say NB model name bias model.

And let me just write Gaussian name bias.

And then what I'm going to do I'm going to basically do the fit on my X train underscore bag of words

comma y underscore train which is my output feature.

Right.

And uh, I can also do the prediction, but later on I'll do it.

And similarly this is my model with respect to B or W for the B or W data set.

And similarly I'll copy this entire thing.

Mm.

And I will make it to Tfidf.

Over here.

Okay.

Uh, and this will be a Navy base.

And instead of giving b b o w, I'll give t f.

Let's see.

So this is tf IDF, right?

I guess perfect.

So let me just execute it.

So this way two models has been created.

One is n b underscore model underscore b o w and nb underscore model underscore tf IDF.

This is probably going to take some time because there are 12,000 records.

Till then.

What I'm actually going to do okay, the execution is done.

So I'm going to basically import some of the metrics.

So I'm going to import confusion metrics accuracy score and classification reports.

Right.

So this is all metrics I'm going to basically use it.

So.

I'm going to make some cells.

And paste it over here.

Perfect.

So go ahead.

Uh, I've imported all the things, and now what I'll do is that I'll just write y underscore pred underscore

b o w.

This is with respect to b o w.

So here I'm going to basically use and b.

A and B underscore model of B or W dot predict on my X test data.

Okay, so x test x test underscore b o w okay.

So this y pred will basically happen.

And similarly I can do it for tfidf.

Also these are all my prediction that I'm going to get.

And here also I'm going to give x underscore test of tfidf.

Okay.

Uh, so this is done.

Now all I have to do is that print the accuracy score.

Right.

So print accuracy.

Score.

And this I'm going to print it for bag of words b o w.

Accuracy.

Okay.

Uh, is equal to with this value.

The accuracy score with respect to Y.

Y test.

Why underscore test comma y underscore bread.

Or B or W.

Okay, so here it is.

Uh, I'm executing it.

Oh, there is an error.

Let's see where is an error?

Over here.

Accuracy score.

Okay I can write comma over here.

So I'm getting basically bag of words as 58% accuracy which is good.

Uh not good.

But it is obviously a little bit bad because the data set is quite huge.

And for this word two vec will definitely work.

I'm also going to make sure that I'm going to show you the confusion matrix with respect to y test comma

y pred.

And that will be b o w.

Right.

So once I execute this you can see that how many are wrong and how many are correct okay.

So obviously not getting good accuracy.

You should definitely try this with word two vec because the data set is quite huge okay.

And now this is with respect to the TF-IDF accuracy right.

And I'm just going to make a cell above.

And let me just go ahead and write this one.

Um and paste it over here.

Right.

So this is my TF-IDF accuracy 58.1%.

Again not that good.

But with respect to confusion matrix I'm again going to print it.

And that is the reason why for a bigger data set, word two vec works actually good.

Okay, so this is the thing with respect to uh, the confusion matrix.

Uh tfidf and all.

Uh, obviously the accuracy is not that good, so you should definitely go ahead and try with word two

vec also to get a better accuracy at the end of the day.

Okay.

So yes, uh, this was it from my side.

Uh, regarding this particular project, one important assignment for you is that just try to do it

with word two vec.

And yes, I will see you all in the next video.

